String Network and U-Duality.  We discuss the generalization of recently discovered BPS configurations,corresponding to the planar string networks, to non-planar ones by consideringthe U-duality symmetry of type II string theory in various dimensions. As anexplicit example, we analyze the string solutions in 8-dimensional space-time,carrying SL(3) charges, and show that by aligning the strings along variousdirections appropriately, one can obtain a string network which preserves 1/8supersymmetry.
Shear viscosity of strongly coupled N=4 supersymmetric Yang-Mills plasma.  Using the anti-de Sitter/conformal field theory correspondence, we relate theshear viscosity \eta of the finite-temperature N=4 supersymmetric Yang-Millstheory in the large N, strong-coupling regime with the absorption cross sectionof low-energy gravitons by a near-extremal black three-brane. We show that inthe limit of zero frequency this cross section coincides with the area of thehorizon. From this result we find \eta=\pi/8 N^2T^3. We conjecture that forfinite 't Hooft coupling (g_YM)^2N the shear viscosity is \eta=f((g_YM)^2N)N^2T^3, where f(x) is a monotonic function that decreases fromO(x^{-2}\ln^{-1}(1/x)) at small x to \pi/8 when x\to\infty.
Noncommutative Quantum Mechanics from Noncommutative Quantum Field  Theory.  We derive noncommutative multi-particle quantum mechanics from noncommutativequantum field theory in the nonrelativistic limit. Paricles of opposite chargesare found to have opposite noncommutativity. As a result, there is nononcommutative correction to the hydrogen atom spectrum at the tree level. Wealso comment on the obstacles to take noncommutative phenomenology seriously,and propose a way to construct noncommutative SU(5) grand unified theory.
An Alternative to Compactification.  Conventional wisdom states that Newton's force law implies only fournon-compact dimensions. We demonstrate that this is not necessarily true in thepresence of a non-factorizable background geometry. The specific example westudy is a single 3-brane embedded in five dimensions. We show that evenwithout a gap in the Kaluza-Klein spectrum, four-dimensional Newtonian andgeneral relativistic gravity is reproduced to more than adequate precision.
Gravity in the Randall-Sundrum Brane World.  We discuss the weak gravitational field created by isolated matter sources inthe Randall-Sundrum brane-world. In the case of two branes of opposite tension,linearized Brans-Dicke (BD) gravity is recovered on either wall, with differentBD parameters. On the wall with positive tension the BD parameter is largerthan 3000 provided that the separation between walls is larger than 4 times theAdS radius. For the wall of negative tension, the BD parameter is alwaysnegative but greater than -3/2. In either case, shadow matter from the otherwall gravitates upon us. For equal Newtonian mass, light deflection from shadowmatter is 25 % weaker than from ordinary matter. Hence, the effective mass of aclustered object containing shadow dark matter would be underestimated ifnaively measured through its lensing effect. For the case of a single wall ofpositive tension, Einstein gravity is recovered on the wall to leading order,and if the source is stationary the field stays localized near the wall. Wecalculate the leading Kaluza-Klein corrections to the linearized gravitationalfield of a non-relativistic spherical object and find that the metric isdifferent from the Schwarzschild solution at large distances. We believe thatour linearized solution corresponds to the field far from the horizon aftergravitational collapse of matter on the brane.
Unification and the Hierarchy from AdS5.  In AdS5, the coupling for bulk gauge bosons runs logarithmically, not as apower law. For this reason, one can preserve perturbative unification ofcouplings. Depending on the cutoff, this can occur at a high scale. We discusssubtleties in the calculation and present a regularization scheme motivated bythe holographic correspondence. We find that generically, as in the standardmodel, the couplings almost unify. For specific choices of the cutoff andnumber of scalar multiplets, there is good agreement between the measuredcouplings and the assumption of high scale unification.
Creation of Fundamental Strings by Crossing D-branes.  We study the force balance between orthogonally positioned $p$-brane and$(8-p)$-brane. The force due to graviton and dilaton exchange is repulsive inthis case. We identify the attractive force that balances this repulsion as dueto one-half of a fundamental string stretched between the branes. As the$p$-brane passes through the $(8-p)$-brane, the connecting string changesdirection, which may be interpreted as creation of one fundamental string. Weshow this directly from the structure of the Chern-Simons terms in the D-braneeffective actions. We also discuss the effect of string creation on the 0-branequantum mechanics in the type I' theory. The creation of a fundamental stringis related by U-duality to the creation of a 3-brane discussed by Hanany andWitten. Both processes have a common origin in M-theory: as two M5-branes withone common direction cross, a M2-brane stretched between them is created.
Non-Singularity of the Exact Two-Dimensional String Black Hole.  We study the global structure of the exact two-dimensional space-time whichemerges from string theory. Previous work has shown that in the semi-classicallimit, this is a black hole similar to the Schwarzschild solution. However, wefind that in the exact case, a new Euclidean region appears "between" thesingularity and black hole interior. However the boundary between theLorentzian and Euclidean regions is a coordinate singularity, which turns outto be a surface of time reflection symmetry in an extended space-time. Thusstrings having fallen through the black hole horizon would eventually emergethrough another one into a new asymptotically flat region. The maximallyextended space-time consists of an infinite number of universes connected bywormholes. There are no singularities present in this geometry. We alsocalculate the mass and temperature associated with the space-time.
Four-dimensional greybody factors and the effective string.  Recently Maldacena and Strominger found that the calculation of greybodyfactors for $D=5$ black holes carrying three U(1) charges gives striking newevidence for their description as multiply wound effective strings. Here weshow that a similar result holds for $D=4$ black holes with four $U(1)$charges. In this case the effective string may be thought of as the tripleintersection of the 5-branes in M-theory compactified on $T^7$.
Black Strings and p-Branes are Unstable.  We investigate the evolution of small perturbations around black strings andbranes which are low energy solutions of string theory. For simplicity we focusattention on the zero charge case and show that there are unstable modes for arange of time frequency and wavelength in the extra $10-D$ dimensions. Theseperturbations can be stabililized if the extra dimensions are compactified to ascale smaller than the minimum wavelength for which instability occurs and thuswill not affect large astrophysical black holes in four dimensions. We commenton the implications of this result for the Cosmic Censorship Hypothesis.
Universality and Clustering in 1+1 Dimensional Superstring-Bit Models.  We construct a 1+1 dimensional superstring-bit model for D=3 Type IIBsuperstring. This low dimension model escapes the problems encountered inhigher dimension models: (1) It possesses full Galilean supersymmetry; (2) Fornoninteracting polymers of bits, the exactly soluble linear superpotentialdescribing bit interactions is in a large universality class of superpotentialswhich includes ones bounded at spatial infinity; (3) The latter are used toconstruct a superstring-bit model with the clustering properties needed todefine an $S$-matrix for closed polymers of superstring-bits.
Cosmology of a brane radiating gravitons into the extra dimension.  We study in a self-consistent way the impact of the emission of bulkgravitons on the (homogeneous) cosmology of a three-brane embedded in afive-dimensional spacetime. In the low energy regime, we recover the well knownresult that the bulk affects the Friedmann equation only via a radiation-liketerm $\C/a^4$, called dark or Weyl radiation. By contrast, in the high energyregime, we find that the Weyl parameter $\C$ is no longer constant but insteadgrows very rapidly as $\C\propto a^4$. As a consequence, the value of $\C$today is not a free parameter as usually considered but is a fixed number,which, generically, depends only on the number of relativistic degrees offreedom at the high/low energy transition. Our estimated amount of Weylradiation satisfies the present nucleosynthesis bounds.
Conformal Field Theory Interpretation of Black Hole Quasi-normal Modes.  We obtain exact expressions for the quasi-normal modes of various spin forthe BTZ black hole. These modes determine the relaxation time of black holeperturbations. Exact agreement is found between the quasi-normal frequenciesand the location of the poles of the retarded correlation function of thecorresponding perturbations in the dual conformal field theory. This thenprovides a new quantitative test of the AdS/CFT correspondence.
E10 and a "small tension expansion" of M Theory.  A formal ``small tension'' expansion of D=11 supergravity near a spacelikesingularity is shown to be equivalent, at least up to 30th order in height, toa null geodesic motion in the infinite dimensional coset space E10/K(E10) whereK(E10) is the maximal compact subgroup of the hyperbolic Kac-Moody groupE10(R). For the proof we make use of a novel decomposition of E10 intoirreducible representations of its SL(10,R) subgroup. We explicitly show how toidentify the first four rungs of the E10 coset fields with the values ofgeometric quantities constructed from D=11 supergravity fields and theirspatial gradients taken at some comoving spatial point.
Complete Wetting in Supersymmetric QCD or Why QCD Strings Can End on  Domain Walls.  As argued by Witten on the basis of M-theory, QCD strings can end on domainwalls. We present an explanation of this effect in the framework of effectivefield theories for the Polyakov loop and the gluino condensate in N=1supersymmetric QCD. The domain walls separating confined phases with differentvalues of the gluino condensate are completely wet by a layer of deconfinedphase at the high-temperature phase transition. As a consequence, even at lowtemperatures, the Polyakov loop has a non-vanishing expectation value on thedomain wall. Thus, close to the wall, the free energy of a static quark isfinite and the string emanating from it can end on the wall.
Lattice Integrable Systems of Haldane-Shastry Type.  We present a new lattice integrable system in one dimension of theHaldane-Shastry type. It consists of spins positioned at the static equilibriumpositions of particles in a corresponding classical Calogero system andinteracting through an exchange term with strength inversely proportional tothe square of their distance. We achieve this by viewing the Haldane-Shastrysystem as a high-interaction limit of the Sutherland system of particles withinternal degrees of freedom and identifying the same limit in a correspondingCalogero system. The commuting integrals of motion of this system are foundusing the exchange operator formalism.
Dirichlet-Branes and Ramond-Ramond Charges.  We show that Dirichlet-branes, extended objects defined by mixedDirichlet-Neumann boundary conditions in string theory, break half of thesupersymmetries of the type~II superstring and carry a complete set of electricand magnetic Ramond-Ramond charges. We also find that the product of theelectric and magnetic charges is a single Dirac unit, and that the quantum ofcharge takes the value required by string duality. This is strong evidence thatthe Dirchlet-branes are intrinsic to type II string theory and are theRamond-Ramond sources required by string duality. We also note the existence ofa previously overlooked 9-form potential in the IIa string, which gives rise toan effective cosmological constant of undetermined magnitude.
Hydrogen Atom Spectrum and the Lamb Shift in Noncommutative QED.  We have calculated the energy levels of the hydrogen atom and as well theLamb shift within the noncommutative quantum electrodynamics theory. Theresults show deviations from the usual QED both on the classical and on thequantum levels. On both levels, the deviations depend on the parameter ofspace/space noncommutativity.
Anyons and Chiral Solitons on a Line.  We show that excitations in a recently proposed gauge theory for anyons on aline in fact do not obey anomalous statistics. On the other hand, the theorysupports novel chiral solitons. Also we construct a field-theoretic descriptionof lineal anyons, but gauge fields play no role.
A Systematic Approach to Confinement in N=1 Supersymmetric Gauge  Theories.  We give necessary criteria for N=1 supersymmetric theories to be in asmoothly confining phase without chiral symmetry breaking and with adynamically generated superpotential. Using our general arguments we find allsuch confining SU and Sp theories with a single gauge group and no tree levelsuperpotential.
Nonsingular global string compactifications.  We consider an exotic `compactification' of spacetime in which there are twoinfinite extra dimensions, using a global string instead of a domain wall. Byhaving a negative cosmological constant we prove the existence of a nonsingularstatic solution using a dynamical systems argument. A nonsingular solution alsoexists in the absence of a cosmological constant with a time-dependent metric.We compare and contrast this solution with the Randall-Sundrum universe and theCohen-Kaplan spacetime, and consider the options of using such a model as arealistic resolution of the hierarchy problem.
All the Four Dimensional Static, Spherically Symmetric Solutions of  Abelian Kaluza-Klein Theory.  We present the explicit form for all the four dimensional, static,spherically symmetric solutions in $(4+n)$-d Abelian Kaluza-Klein theory byperforming a subset of $SO(2,n)$ transformations corresponding to four$SO(1,1)$ boosts on the Schwarzschild solution, supplemented by $SO(n)/SO(n-2)$transformations. The solutions are parameterized by the mass $M$, Taub-Nutcharge $a$, $n$ electric $\vec{\cal Q}$ and $n$ magnetic $\vec{\cal P}$charges. Non-extreme black holes (with zero Taub-NUT charge) have either theReissner-Nordstr\" om or Schwarzschild global space-time. Supersymmetricextreme black holes have a null or naked singularity, while non-supersymmetricextreme ones have a global space-time of extreme Reissner-Nordstr\" om blackholes.
Exact Three Dimensional Black Holes in String Theory.  A black hole solution to three dimensional general relativity with a negativecosmological constant has recently been found. We show that a slightmodification of this solution yields an exact solution to string theory. Thisblack hole is equivalent (under duality) to the previously discussed threedimensional black string solution. Since the black string is asymptoticallyflat and the black hole is asymptotically anti-de Sitter, this suggests thatstrings are not affected by a negative cosmological constant in threedimensions.
Spectrum of Large N Gauge Theory from Supergravity.  Recently, Maldacena proposed that the large N limit of the N=4 supersymmetricgauge theory in four dimensions with U(N) gauge group is dual to the type IIBsuperstring theory on AdS_5 x S^5. We use this proposal to study the spectrumof the large N gauge theory on R x S^3 in a low energy regime. We find that thespectrum is discrete and evenly spaced, and the number of states at each energylevel is smaller than the one predicted by the naive extrapolation of theBekenstein-Hawking formula to the low energy regime. We also show that thegauge theory describes a region of spacetime behind the horizon as well as theregion in front.
Opening up extra dimensions at ultra-large scales.  The standard picture of viable higher-dimensional theories is that extradimensions manifest themselves at short distances only, their effects beingnegligible at scales larger than some critical value. We show that this is notnecessarily true in models with infinite extra dimensions. As an example, weconsider a five-dimensional scenario with three 3-branes in which gravity isfive-dimensional both at short {\it and} very long distance scales, withconventional four-dimensional gravity operating at intermediate length scales.A phenomenologically acceptable range of validity of four-dimensional gravityextending from microscopic to cosmological scales is obtained without strongfine-tuning of parameters.
Type IIB instanton as a wave in twelve dimensions.  0-brane of type IIA string theory can be interpreted as a dimensionalreduction of a gravitational wave in 11 dimensions. We observe that a similarinterpretation applies also to the D-instanton background of type IIB theory:it can be viewed as a reduction (along one spatial and one time-like direction)of a wave in a 12-dimensional theory. The instanton charge is thus related to alinear momentum in 12 dimensions. This suggests that the instanton should playas important role in type IIB theory as the 0-brane is supposed to play in typeIIA theory.
A Brane World Solution to the Cosmological Constant Problem.  We consider a model with two parallel (positive tension) 3-branes separatedby a distance $L$ in 5-dimensional spacetime. If the interbrane space isanti-deSitter, or is not precisely anti-deSitter but contains no eventhorizons, the effective 4-dimensional cosmological constant seen by observerson one of the branes (chosen to be the visible brane) becomes exponentiallysmall as $L$ grows large.
Geometrical Finiteness, Holography, and the BTZ Black Hole.  We show how a theorem of Sullivan provides a precise mathematical statementof a 3d holographic principle, that is, the hyperbolic structure of a certainclass of 3d manifolds is completely determined in terms of the correspondingTeichmuller space of the boundary. We explore the consequences of this theoremin the context of the Euclidean BTZ black hole in three dimensions.
Localized Gravity in String Theory.  We propose a string realization of the AdS4 brane in AdS5 that is known tolocalize gravity. Our theory is M D5 branes in the near horizon geometry of ND3 branes, where M and N are appropriately tuned.
Charge fractionization in N=2 supersymmetric QCD.  It is shown that the physical ``quark number'' charges which appear in thecentral charge of the supersymmetry algebra of $N=2$ supersymmetric QCD cantake irrational values and depend non trivially on the Higgs expectation value.This gives a physical interpretation of the constant shifts which the``electric'' and ``magnetic'' variables $a_D$ and $a$ undergo when encircling asingularity, and show that duality in this model is truly anelectric-magnetic-quark number duality. Also included is a computation of themonodromy matrices directly in the microscopic theory.
Embeddings of the Virasoro algebra and black hole entropy.  We consider embeddings of the Virasoro algebra into other Virasoro algebraswith different central charges. A Virasoro algebra with central charge c(assumed to be a positive integer) and zero mode operator L_0 can be embeddedinto another Virasoro algebra with central charge one and zero mode operator cL_0. We point out that this provides a new route to investigate the black holeentropy problem in 2+1 dimensions.
Singularity Free (Homogeneous Isotropic) Universe in Graviton-Dilaton  Models.  We present a class of graviton-dilaton models in which a homogeneousisotropic universe, such as our observed one, evolves with no singularity atany time. Such models may stand on their own as interesting models forsingularity free cosmology, and may be studied further accordingly. They mayalso arise from string theory. We discuss critically a few such possibilities.
Noncommutative Quantum Cosmology.  We propose a model for noncommutative quantum cosmology by means of adeformation of minisuperspace. For the Kantowski-Sachs metric we are able tofind the exact wave function. We construct wave packets and show that newquantum states that ``compete'' to be the most probable state appear, in clearcontrast with the commutative case. A tunneling process could be possible amongthese states.
Comments on `` Black Hole Entropy from Conformal Field Theory in Any  Dimension ''.  In a recent letter, Carlip proposed a generalization of theBrown-Henneaux-Strominger construction to any dimension. We present twocriticisms about his formulation.
Supergravity on the Brane.  We show that smooth domain wall spacetimes supported by a scalar fieldseparating two anti-de-Sitter like regions admit a single graviton bound state.Our analysis yields a fully non-linear supergravity treatment of theRandall-Sundrum model. Our solutions describe a pp-wave propagating in thedomain wall background spacetime. If the latter is BPS, our solutions retainsome supersymmetry. Nevertheless, the Kaluza-Klein modes generate ``ppcurvature'' singularities in the bulk located where the horizon of AdS wouldordinarily be.
Infinitely Large New Dimensions.  We construct intersecting brane configurations in Anti-de-Sitter spacelocalizing gravity to the intersection region, with any number $n$ of extradimensions. This allows us to construct two kinds of theories with infinitelylarge new dimensions, TeV scale quantum gravity and sub-millimeter deviationsfrom Newton's Law. The effective 4D Planck scale $M_{Pl}$ is determined interms of the fundamental Planck scale $M_*$ and the $AdS$ radius of curvature$L$ via the familiar relation $M_{Pl}^2 \sim M_{*}^{2+n} L^n$; $L$ acts as aneffective radius of compactification for gravity on the intersection. Taking$M_* \sim $ TeV and $L \sim $ sub-mm reproduces the phenomenology of theorieswith large extra dimensions. Alternately, taking $M_* \sim L^{-1} \sim M_{Pl}$,and placing our 3-brane a distance $\sim 100 M_{Pl}^{-1}$ away from theintersection gives us a theory with an exponential determination of theWeak/Planck hierarchy.
Exact Wavefunctions in a Noncommutative Field Theory.  We consider the nonrelativistic field theory with a quartic interaction on anoncommutative plane. We compute the four point scattering amplitude withinperturbative analysis to all orders and identify the beta function and therunning of the coupling constant. Since the theory admits an equivalentdescription via the N particle Schrodinger equation, we regain the scatteringamplitude by finding an exact scattering wavefunction of the two body equation.The wave function for the bound state is also identified. These wave functionsunusually have two center positions in the relative coordinates. The separationof the centers is in the transverse direction of the total momentum and growslinearly with the noncommutativity scale and the total momentum, exhibiting thestringy nature of the noncommutative field theory.
Reply to the comment by Park and Ho.  This is a reply to a recent comment (hep-th/9910158) by Park and Ho on apaper (hep-th/9812013) that describes a derivation of black hole entropy fromhorizon conformal field theory. The criticism of Park and Ho is partiallycorrect - the original paper did not give the complete surface term in theHamiltonian - but it does not affect the conclusions, which have been checkedusing a somewhat different, manifestly covariant formalism (gr-qc/9906126).
Vacuum interpolation in supergravity via super p-branes.  We show that many of the recently proposed supersymmetric p-brane solutionsof d=10 and d=11 supergravity have the property that they interpolate betweenMinkowski spacetime and a compactified spacetime, both being supersymmetricsupergravity vacua. Our results imply that the effective worldvolume action forsmall fluctuations of the super p-brane is a supersingleton field theory for$(adS)_{p+2}$, as has been often conjectured in the past.
Why is the Matrix Model Correct?.  We consider the compactification of M theory on a light-like circle as alimit of a compactification on a small spatial circle boosted by a largeamount. Assuming that the compactification on a small spatial circle is weaklycoupled type IIA theory, we derive Susskind's conjecture that M theorycompactified on a light-like circle is given by the finite $N$ version of theMatrix model of Banks, Fischler, Shenker and Susskind. This point of viewprovides a uniform derivation of the Matrix model for M theory compactified ona transverse torus $T^p$ for $p=0,...,5$ and clarifies the difficulties forlarger values of $p$.
The Matrix Theory S-Matrix.  The technology required for eikonal scattering amplitude calculations inMatrix theory is developed. Using the entire supersymmetric completion of thev^4/r^7 Matrix theory potential we compute the graviton-graviton scatteringamplitude and find agreement with eleven dimensional supergravity at treelevel.
Localizing Gravity on a String-Like Defect in Six Dimensions.  We present a metric solution in six dimensions where gravity is localized ona four-dimensional singular string-like defect. The corrections tofour-dimensional gravity from the bulk continuum modes are suppressed by ${\calO}(1/r^3)$. No tuning of the bulk cosmological constant to the brane tension isrequired in order to cancel the four-dimensional cosmological constant.
Modular Invariance and Structure of the Exact Wilsonian Action of N=2  SYM.  We construct modular invariants on the moduli space of quantum vacua of N=2SYM with gauge group SU(2). We also introduce a nonchiral function K which isexpressed in terms of the Seiberg-Witten and Poincare' metrics. It turns outthat K has all the expected properties of the next to leading term in theWilsonian effective action whose modular properties are considered in theframework of the dimensional regularization.
Schwarzschild Black Holes from Matrix Theory.  We consider Matrix theory compactified on T^3 and show that it correctlydescribes the properties of Schwarzschild black holes in 7+1 dimensions,including the energy-entropy relation, the Hawking temperature and the physicalsize, up to numerical factors of order unity. The most economical descriptioninvolves setting the cut-off N in the discretized light-cone quantization to beof order the black hole entropy. A crucial ingredient necessary for our work isthe recently proposed equation of state for 3+1 dimensional SYM theory with 16supercharges. We give detailed arguments for the range of validity of thisequation following the methods of Horowitz and Polchinski.
Covariant Action for the Super-Five-Brane of M-Theory.  We propose a complete, d=6 covariant and kappa-symmetric, action for anM-theory five-brane propagating in D=11 supergravity background.
Causal Boundary Entropy From Horizon Conformal Field Theory.  The quantum theory of near horizon regions of spacetimes with classicalspatially flat, homogeneous and isotropic Friedman-Robertson-Walker geometrycan be approximately described by a two dimensional conformal field theory. Thecentral charge of this theory and expectation value of its Hamiltonian are bothproportional to the horizon area in units of Newton's constant. The statisticalentropy of horizon states, which can be calculated using two dimensional statecounting methods, is proportional to the horizon area and depends on anumerical constant of order unity which is determined by Planck scale physics.This constant can be fixed such that the entropy is equal to a quarter of thehorizon area in units of Newton's constant, in agreement with thermodynamicconsiderations.
Brane world from IIB matrices.  We have recently proposed a dynamical mechanism that may realize a flatfour-dimensional space time as a brane in type IIB superstring theory. Acrucial role is played by the phase of the chiral fermion integral associatedwith the IKKT Matrix Theory, which is conjectured to be a nonperturbativedefinition of type IIB superstring theory. We demonstrate our mechanism bystudying a simplified model, in which we find that a lower-dimensional braneindeed appears dynamically. We also comment on some implications of ourmechanism on model building of the brane world.
Counterterms/M-theory Corrections to D=11 Supergravity.  We construct a local on-shell invariant in D=11 supergravity from thenonlocal four-point tree scattering amplitude.Its existence, together withearlier arguments, implies non-renormalizability of the theory at lowestpossible, two loop, level. This invariant, whose leading bosonic terms areexhibited, may also express the leading, "zero-slope", M$-$theory correctionsto its D=11 supergravity limit.
Wess-Zumino Terms in Supersymmetric Gauge Theories.  The Wess-Zumino term is constructed for supersymmetric QCD with two colorsand flavors, and is shown to correctly reproduce the anomalous Ward identities.Supersymmetric QCD is also shown not to have topologically stable skyrmionsolutions because of baryon flat directions, which allow them to unwind. Thegeneralization of these results to other supersymmetric theories with quantummodified constraints is discussed.
Exact solution of double-delta function Bose gas through interacting  anyon gas.  1d Bose gas interacting through delta, delta' and double-delta functionpotentials is shown to be equivalent to a delta anyon gas allowing exact Betheansatz solution. In the noninteracting limit it describes an ideal gas withgeneralized exclusion statistics and solves some recent controversies.
Positive Mass from Holographic Causality.  For n+1 dimensional asymptotically AdS spacetimes which have holographicduals on their n dimensional conformal boundaries, we show that the impositionof causality on the boundary theory is sufficient to prove positivity of massfor the spacetime when n > 2, without the assumption of any local energycondition. We make crucial use of a generalization of the time-delay formulacalculated in gr-qc/9404019, which relates the time delay of a bulk null curvewith respect to a boundary null geodesic to the Ashtekar-Magnon mass of thespacetime. We also discuss holographic causality for the negative mass AdSsoliton and its implications for the positive energy conjecture of Horowitz andMyers.
Exact Four-Dimensional Dyonic Black Holes and Bertotti-Robinson  Spacetimes in String Theory.  Conformal field theories corresponding to two-dimensional electricallycharged black holes and to two-dimensional anti-de Sitter space with acovariantly constant electric field are simply constructed as $SL(2,R)/Z$ WZWcoset models. The two-dimensional electrically charged black holes are relatedby Kaluza-Klein reduction to the 2+1-dimensional rotating black hole ofBanados, Teitelboim and Zanelli, and our construction is correspondinglyrelated to its realization as a WZW model. Four-dimensional spacetime solutionsare obtained by tensoring these two-dimensional theories with $SU(2)/Z(m)$coset models. These describe a family of dyonic black holes and theBertotti--Robinson universe.
Ramond-Ramond Central Charges in the Supersymmetry Algebra of the  Superstring.  The free action for the massless sector of the Type II superstring wasrecently constructed using closed RNS superstring field theory. Thesupersymmetry transformations of this action are shown to satisfy an N=2 D=10SUSY algebra with Ramond-Ramond central charges.
Fate of the Black String Instability.  Gregory and Laflamme showed that certain nonextremal black strings (andp-branes) are unstable to linearized perturbations. It is widely believed thatthis instability will cause the black string horizon to classically pinch offand then quantum mechanically separate, resulting in higher dimensional blackholes. We argue that this cannot happen. Under very mild assumptions, classicalevent horizons cannot pinch off. Instead, they settle down to new static blackstring solutions which are not translationally invariant along the string.
Conformal boundary conditions and three-dimensional topological field  theory.  We present a general construction of all correlation functions of atwo-dimensional rational conformal field theory, for an arbitrary number ofbulk and boundary fields and arbitrary topologies. The correlators areexpressed in terms of Wilson graphs in a certain three-manifold, the connectingmanifold. The amplitudes constructed this way can be shown to be modularinvariant and to obey the correct factorization rules.
Holography and String Dynamics in Time-dependent Backgrounds.  We study the dynamics of D-branes in a smooth time-dependent background. Thetheory on the branes is a time-dependent non-commutative field theory. We findthe metric and fluxes that determine the dual holographic closed string theory.This provides a concrete example of holography in a cosmological setting.
Asymptotic conservation laws in field theory.  A new, general, field theoretic approach to the derivation of asymptoticconservation laws is presented. In this approach asymptotic conservation lawsare constructed directly from the field equations according to a universalprescription which does not rely upon the existence of Noether identities orany Lagrangian or Hamiltonian formalisms. The resulting general expressions ofthe conservation laws enjoy important invariance properties and synthesize allknown asymptotic conservation laws, such as the ADM energy in generalrelativity.
Black Holes Radiate Mainly on the Brane.  We examine the evaporation of a small black hole on a brane in a world withlarge extra dimensions. Since the masses of many Kaluza-Klein modes are muchsmaller than the Hawking temperature of the black hole, it has been claimedthat most of the energy is radiated into these modes. We show that this isincorrect. Most of the energy goes into the modes on the brane. This raises thepossibility of observing Hawking radiation in future high energy colliders ifthere are large extra dimensions.
Tiling the plane without supersymmetry.  We present a way of tiling the plane with a regular hexagonal network ofdefects. The network is stable and follows in consequence of thethree-junctions that appear in a model of two real scalar fields that presents$Z_3$ symmetry. The $Z_3$ symmetry is effective in both the vacuum and defectsectors, and no supersymmetry is required to build the network.
String inspired braneworld cosmology.  We consider braneworld scenarios including the leading correction to theEinstein-Hilbert action suggested by superstring theory, the Gauss-Bonnet term.We obtain and study the complete set of equations governing the cosmologicaldynamics. We find they have the same form as those in Randall-Sundrum scenariosbut with time-varying four-dimensional gravitational and cosmologicalconstants. Studying the bulk geometry we show that this variation is producedby bulk curvature terms parameterized by the mass of a black hole. Finally, weshow there is a coupling between these curvature terms and matter that can berelevant for early universe cosmology.
Quantization of AdS_3 Black Holes in External Fields.  2+1-dimensional Anti-deSitter gravity is quantized in the presence of anexternal scalar field. We find that the coupling between the scalar field andgravity is equivalently described by a perturbed conformal field theory at theboundary of AdS_3. We derive the explicit form of this coupling, which allowsus to perform a microscopic computation of the transition rates between blackhole states due to absorption and induced emission of the scalar field.Detailed thermodynamic balance then yields Hawking radiation as spontaneousemission, and we find agreement with the semiclassical result, includinggreybody factors. This result also has application to four and five dimensionalblack holes in supergravity. However, since we only deal with gravitationaldegrees of freedom, the approach is not based on string theory, and does notdepend, either, on the validity of Maldacena's AdS/CFT conjecture.
Discrete Symmetries (C,P,T) in Noncommutative Field Theories.  In this paper we study the invariance of the noncmmutative gauge theoriesunder C, P and T transformations. For the noncommutative space (when only thespatial part of $\theta$ is non-zero) we show that NCQED is Parity invariant.In addition, we show that under charge conjugation the theory on noncommutative$R^4_{\theta}$ is transformed to the theory on $R^4_{-\theta}$, so NCQED is aCP violating theory. The theory remains invariant under time reversal if,together with proper changes in fields, we also change $\theta$ by $-\theta$.Hence altogether NCQED is CPT invariant. Moreover we show that the CPTinvariance holds for general noncommutative space-time.
The boundary S-matrix and the AdS to CFT dictionary.  An S-matrix analog is defined for anti-de Sitter space by constructing ``in''and ``out'' states that asymptote to the timelike boundary. A derivationparallel to that of the LSZ formula shows that this ``boundary S-matrix'' isgiven directly by correlation functions in the boundary conformal theory. Thisprovides a key entry in the AdS to CFT dictionary.
Does a Randall-Sundrum scenario create the illusion of a torsion-free  universe?.  We consider spacetime with torsion in a Randall-Sundrum (RS) scenario wheretorsion, identified with the rank-2 Kalb-Ramond field, exists in the bulktogether with gravity. While the interactions of both graviton and torsion inthe bulk are controlled by the Planck mass, an additional exponentialsuppression comes for the torsion zero-mode on the visible brane. This mayserve as a natural explanation of why the effect of torsion is so much weakerthan that of curvature on the brane. The massive torsion modes, on the otherhand, are correlated with the corresponding gravitonic modes and may bedetectable in TeV-scale experiments.
The Black Hole in Three Dimensional Space Time.  The standard Einstein-Maxwell equations in 2+1 spacetime dimensions, with anegative cosmological constant, admit a black hole solution. The 2+1 black hole-characterized by mass, angular momentum and charge, defined by flux integralsat infinity- is quite similar to its 3+1 counterpart. Anti-de Sitter spaceappears as a negative energy state separated by a mass gap from the continuousblack hole spectrum. Evaluation of the partition function yields that theentropy is equal to twice the perimeter length of the horizon.
Toward QCD String: No Folds.  We propose a string theory model which explains several features of twodimensional YM theory. Folds are suppressed. This in turn leads to the emptytheory in flat target spaces. The Nambu-Goto action appears in the usual way.The model naturally splits into two (chiral) sectors: orientation preservingmaps and orientation reversing maps. Moreover it has a straightforwardextension to 3 and 4 dimensional space-times, which could be the rigid stringwith the self-intersection number at $\theta=\pi$.
The Ising model with a boundary magnetic field on a random surface.  The bulk and boundary magnetizations are calculated for the critical Isingmodel on a randomly triangulated disk in the presence of a boundary magneticfield h. In the continuum limit this model corresponds to a c = 1/2 conformalfield theory coupled to 2D quantum gravity, with a boundary term breakingconformal invariance. It is found that as h increases, the averagemagnetization of a bulk spin decreases, an effect that is explained in terms offluctuations of the geometry. By introducing an $h$-dependent rescaling factor,the disk partition function and bulk magnetization can be expressed asfunctions of an effective boundary length and bulk area with no furtherdependence on h, except that the bulk magnetization is discontinuous andvanishes at h = 0. These results suggest that just as in flat space, theboundary field generates a renormalization group flow towards h = \infty. Anexact analytic expression for the boundary magnetization as a function of $h$is linear near h = 0, leading to a finite nonzero magnetic susceptibility atthe critical temperature.
Complementarity of the Maldacena and Randall-Sundrum Pictures.  We revive an old result, that one-loop corrections to the graviton propagatorinduce 1/r^3 corrections to the Newtonian gravitational potential, and computethe coefficient due to closed loops of the U(N) {\cal N}=4 super-Yang-Millstheory that arises in Maldacena's AdS/CFT correspondence. We find exactagreement with the coefficient appearing in the Randall-Sundrum brane-worldproposal. This provides more evidence for the complementarity of the twopictures.
Wilson loops in large N field theories.  We propose a method to calculate the expectation values of an operatorsimilar to the Wilson loop in the large N limit of field theories. We considerN=4 3+1 dimensional super-Yang-Mills. The prescription involves calculating thearea of a fundamental string worldsheet in certain supergravity backgrounds. Wealso consider the case of coincident M-theory fivebranes where one is lead tocalculating the area of M-theory two-branes. We briefly discuss the computationfor 2+1 dimensional super-Yang-Mills with sixteen supercharges which isnon-conformal. In all these cases we calculate the energy of quark-antiquarkpair.
`t Hooft Anomaly Matching for QCD.  I present a set of theories which display non-trivial `t Hooft anomalymatching for QCD with $F$ flavors. The matching theories are non-Abelian gaugetheories with "dual" quarks and baryons, rather than the purely confiningtheories of baryons that `t Hooft originally searched for. The matching gaugegroups are required to have an $F\pm 6$ dimensional representation. Such acorrespondence is reminiscent of Seiberg's duality for supersymmetric (SUSY)QCD, and these theories are candidates for non-SUSY duality. However anomalymatching by itself is not sufficiently restrictive, and duality for QCD cannotbe established at present. At the very least, the existence of multiple anomalymatching solutions should provide a note of caution regarding conjecturednon-SUSY dualities.
Matrix Theory Interpretation of DLCQ String Worldsheets.  We study the null compactification of type-IIA-string perturbation theory atfinite temperature. We prove a theorem about Riemann surfaces establishing thatthe moduli spaces of infinite-momentum-frame superstring worldsheets areidentical to those of branched-cover instantons in the matrix-string modelconjectured to describe M-theory. This means that the identification of stringdegrees of freedom in the matrix model proposed by Dijkgraaf, Verlinde andVerlinde is correct and that its natural generalization produces the modulispace of Riemann surfaces at all orders in the genus expansion.
Shadows of the Planck Scale: The Changing Face of Compactification  Geometry.  By studying the effects of the shape moduli associated with toroidalcompactifications, we demonstrate that Planck-sized extra dimensions can castsignificant ``shadows'' over low-energy physics. These shadows can greatlydistort our perceptions of the compactification geometry associated with largeextra dimensions, and place a fundamental limit on our ability to probe thegeometry of compactification simply by measuring Kaluza-Klein states. We alsodiscuss the interpretation of compactification radii and hierarchies in thecontext of geometries with non-trivial shape moduli. One of the main results ofthis paper is that compactification geometry is effectively renormalized as afunction of energy scale, with ``renormalization group equations'' describingthe ``flow'' of geometric parameters such as compactification radii and shapeangles as functions of energy.
Hard Scattering and Gauge/String Duality.  We consider high-energy fixed-angle scattering of glueballs in confininggauge theories that have supergravity duals. Although the effective descriptionis in terms of the scattering of strings, we find that the amplitudes are hard(power law). This is a consequence of the warped geometry of the dual theory,which has the effect that in an inertial frame the string process is never inthe soft regime. At small angle we find hard and Regge behaviors in differentkinematic regions.
Supersymmetric Gauge Theories with an Affine Quantum Moduli Space.  All supersymmetric gauge theories based on simple groups which have an affinequantum moduli space, i.e. one generated by gauge invariants with no relations,W=0, and anomaly matching at the origin, are classified. It is shown that theonly theories with no gauge invariants (and moduli space equal to a singlepoint) are the two known examples, SU(5) with 5-bar + 10 and SO(10) with aspinor. The index of the matter representation must be at least as big as theindex of the adjoint in theories which have a non-trivial relation among thegauge invariants.
On the Friedmann Equation in Brane-World Scenarios.  The Friedmann law on the brane generically depends quadratically on the braneenergy density and involves a ``dark radiation'' term due to the bulk Weyltensor. Despite its unfamiliar form, we show how it can be derived from astandard four-dimensional Brans-Dicke theory at low energy. In particular, thedark radiation term is found to depend linearly on the brane energy densities.For any equation of state on the branes, the radion evolves such as to generateradiation-dominated cosmology. The radiation-dominated era is conventional andconsistent with nucleosynthesis.
Statistical Hair on Black Holes.  The Bekenstein-Hawking entropy for certain BPS-saturated black holes instring theory has recently been derived by counting internal black holemicrostates at weak coupling. We argue that the black hole microstate can bemeasured by interference experiments even in the strong coupling region wherethere is clearly an event horizon. Extracting information which is naivelybehind the event horizon is possible due to the existence of statisticalquantum hair carried by the black hole. This quantum hair arises from thearbitrarily large number of discrete gauge symmetries present in string theory.
String Interactions in PP-Waves.  We argue that string interactions in a PP-wave spacetime are governed by aneffective coupling $g_{eff}=g_s(\mu p^+\apm)f(\mu p^+ \apm)$ where $f(\mu p^+in the interaction. This simply follows from generalities of a Matrix Stringdescription of this background. $g_{eff}$ nicely interpolates between theexpected result ($g_s$) for flat space (small $\mu p^+\apm$) and a recentlyconjectured expression from the perturbative gauge theory side (large $\mup^+\apm$).
Spacetime and the Holographic Renormalization Group.  Anti-de Sitter (AdS) space can be foliated by a family of nested surfaceshomeomorphic to the boundary of the space. We propose a holographiccorrespondence between theories living on each surface in the foliation andquantum gravity in the enclosed volume. The flow of observables between our``interior'' theories is described by a renormalization group equation. Thedependence of these flows on the foliation of space encodes bulk geometry.
Symmetries of Large N Matrix Models for Closed Strings.  We obtain the symmetry algebra of multi-matrix models in the planar large Nlimit. We use this algebra to associate these matrix models with quantum spinchains. In particular, certain multi-matrix models are exactly solved by usingknown results of solvable spin chain systems.
A Universal Action Formula.  A universal formula for an action associated with a noncommutative geometry,defined by a spectal triple $(\Ac ,\Hc ,D)$, is proposed. It is based on thespectrum of the Dirac operator and is a geometric invariant. The new symmetryprinciple is the automorphism of the algebra $\Ac $ which combines bothdiffeomorphisms and internal symmetries. Applying this to the geometry definedby the spectrum of the standard model gives an action that unifies gravity withthe standard model at a very high energy scale.
A uniqueness theorem for the adS soliton.  The stability of physical systems depends on the existence of a state ofleast energy. In gravity, this is guaranteed by the positive energy theorem.For topological reasons this fails for nonsupersymmetric Kaluza-Kleincompactifications, which can decay to arbitrarily negative energy. For relatedreasons, this also fails for the AdS soliton, a globally static, asymptoticallytoroidal $\Lambda<0$ spacetime with negative mass. Nonetheless, arguing fromthe AdS/CFT correspondence, Horowitz and Myers (hep-th/9808079) proposed a newpositive energy conjecture, which asserts that the AdS soliton is the uniquestate of least energy in its asymptotic class. We give a new structure theoremfor static $\Lambda<0$ spacetimes and use it to prove uniqueness of the AdSsoliton. Our results offer significant support for the new positive energyconjecture and add to the body of rigorous results inspired by the AdS/CFTcorrespondence.
Model for self-tuning the cosmological constant.  The vanishing cosmological constant in the four dimensional space-time isobtained in a 5D Randall-Sundrum model with a brane (B1) located at $y=0$. Thematter fields can be located at the brane. For settling any vacuum energygenerated at the brane to zero, we need a three index antisymmetric tensorfield $A_{MNP}$ with a specific form for the Lagrangian. For the self-tuningmechanism, the bulk cosmological constant should be negative.
Noncommutative D-Brane in Non-Constant NS-NS B Field Background.  We show that when the field strength H of the NS-NS B field does not vanish,the coordinates X and momenta P of an open string endpoints satisfy a set ofmixed commutation relations among themselves. Identifying X and P with thecoordinates and derivatives of the D-brane world volume, we find a new type ofnoncommutative spaces which is very different from those associated with aconstant B field background.
Non-Abelian BPS Monopoles in N=4 Gauged Supergravity.  We study static, spherically symmetric, and purely magnetic solutions ofSU(2) $\times$ SU(2) gauge supergravity in four dimensions. A systematicanalysis of the supersymmetry conditions reveals solutions which preserve 1/8of the supersymmetries and are characterized by a BPS-monopole-type gauge fieldand a globally hyperbolic, everywhere regular geometry. These present the firstknown example of non-Abelian backgrounds in gauge supergravity and in leadingorder effective string theory.
Noncommutative Field Theory and Lorentz Violation.  The role of Lorentz symmetry in noncommutative field theory is considered.Any realistic noncommutative theory is found to be physically equivalent to asubset of a general Lorentz-violating standard-model extension involvingordinary fields. Some theoretical consequences are discussed. Existingexperiments bound the scale of the noncommutativity parameter to (10 TeV)^{-2}.
Gott Time Machines, BTZ Black Hole Formation, and Choptuik Scaling.  We study the formation of BTZ black holes by the collision of pointparticles. It is shown that the Gott time machine, originally constructed forthe case of vanishing cosmological constant, provides a precise mechanism forblack hole formation. As a result, one obtains an exact analytic understandingof the Choptuik scaling.
Strings with Negative Stiffness and Hyperfine Structure.  We propose a new string model by adding a higher-order gradient term to therigid string, so that the stiffness can be positive or negative without loosingstability. In the large-D approximation, the model has three phases, one ofwhich with a new type of generalized "antiferromagnetic" orientationalcorrelations. We find an infrared-stable fixed point describing world-sheetswith vanishing tension and Hausdorff dimension D_H=2. Crumpling is prevented bythe new term which suppresses configurations with rapidly changing extrinsiccurvature.
Waves and Solitons in the Continuum Limit of the Calogero-Sutherland  Model.  We examine a collection of particles interacting with inverse-square two-bodypotentials in the thermodynamic limit. We find explicit large-amplitude densitywaves and soliton solutions for the motion of the system. Waves can beconstructed as coherent states of either solitons or phonons. Therefore, eithersolitons or phonons can be considered as the fundamental excitations. Thegeneric wave is shown to correspond to a two-band state in the quantumdescription of the system, while the limiting cases of solitons and phononscorrespond to particle and hole excitations.
A Bogomol`nyi equation for intersecting domain walls.  We argue that the Wess-Zumino model with quartic superpotential admits staticsolutions in which three domain walls intersect at a junction. We derive anenergy bound for such junctions and show that configurations saturating itpreserve 1/4 supersymmetry.
Dual Instantons.  We show how to map the Belavin-Polyakov instantons of the O(3)-nonlinear$\sigma-$model to a dual theory where they then appear as nontopologicalsolitons. They are stationary points of the Euclidean action in the dualtheory, and moreover, the dual action and the O(3)-nonlinear $\sigma-$modelaction agree on shell.
Three-Family $SO(10)$ Grand Unification in String Theory.  The construction of a supersymmetric $SO(10)$ grand unification with 5left-handed and 2 right-handed families in the four-dimensional heteroticstring theory is presented. The model has one $SO(10)$ adjoint Higgs field. The$SO(10)$ current algebra is realized at level 3.
Exchange Operator Formalism for Integrable Systems of Particles.  We formulate one dimensional many-body integrable systems in terms of a newset of phase space variables involving exchange operators. The hamiltonian inthese variables assumes a decoupled form. This greatly simplifies thederivation of the conserved charges and the proof of their commutativity at thequantum level.
Nonperturbative Relations in N=2 SUSY Yang-Mills and WDVV equation.  We find the nonperturbative relation between $\langle {\rm tr} \phi^2the vevs $\langle \phi_i\rangle$ in $N=2$ supersymmetric Yang-Mills theorieswith gauge group $SU(3)$. Nonlinear differential equations for ${\cal F}$including the Witten -- Dijkgraaf -- Verlinde -- Verlinde equation areobtained. This indicates that $N=2$ SYM theories are essentially topologicalfield theories and that should be seen as low-energy limit of sometopological string theory. Furthermore, we construct relevant modularinvariant quantities, derive canonical relations between the periods andinvestigate the structure of the beta function by giving its explicit form inthe moduli coordinates. In doing this we discuss the uniformization problemfor the quantum moduli space.  The method we propose can be generalized to$N=2$ supersymmetric Yang-Mills theories with higher rank gauge groups.
Effective spatial dimension of extremal non-dilatonic black p-branes  and the description of entropy on the world volume.  By investigating the critical behavior appearing at the extremal limit of thenon-dilatonic, black p-branes in (d+p) dimensions, we find that somecritical exponents related to the critical point obey the scaling laws. Fromthe scaling laws we obtain that the effective spatial dimension of thenon-dilatonic black holes and black strings is one, and is p for thenon-dilatonic black p-branes. For the dilatonic black holes and blackp-branes, the effective dimension will depend on the parameters in theories.Thus, we give an interpretation why the Bekenstein-Hawking entropy may be givena simple world volume interpretation only for the non-dilatonic blackp-branes.
On the Coupling of Gravitons to Matter.  Using relationships between open and closed strings, we present aconstruction of tree-level scattering amplitudes for gravitons minimallycoupled to matter in terms of gauge theory partial amplitudes. In particular,we present examples of amplitudes with gravitons coupled to vectors or to asingle fermion pair. We also present two examples with massive gravitonexchange, as would arise in the presence of large compact dimensions. The gaugecharges are represented by flavors of dynamical scalars or fermions. This alsoleads to an unconventional decomposition of color and kinematics in gaugetheories.
Microstates of Four-Dimensional Rotating Black Holes from Near-Horizon  Geometry.  We show that a class of four-dimensional rotating black holes allowfive-dimensional embeddings as black rotating strings. Their near-horizongeometry factorizes locally as a product of the three-dimensional anti-deSitterspace-time and a two-dimensional sphere (AdS_3 x S^2), with angular momentumencoded in the global space-time structure. Following the observation that theisometries on the AdS_3 space induce a two-dimensional (super)conformal fieldtheory on the boundary, we reproduce the microscopic entropy with the correctdependence on the black hole angular momentum.
Topological Solitons from DeConstructed Extra Dimensions.  A topological monopole-like field configuration exists for Yang-Mills gaugefields in a 4+1 dimensions. When the extra dimension is compactified to 3+1dimensions with periodic lattice boundary conditions, these objects reappear inthe low energy effective theory as a novel solution, a gauged-bosonic Skyrmion.When the low energy theory spontaneously breaks, the Nambu-Goldstone modedevelops a VEV, and the gauged-bosonic Skyrmion morphs into a `tHooft--Polyakov monopole.
Target Space Duality in Noncommutative Geometry.  The structure of spacetime duality and discrete worldsheet symmetries ofcompactified string theory is examined within the framework of noncommutativegeometry. The full noncommutative string spacetime is constructed using theFrohlich-Gawedzki spectral triple which incorporates the vertex operatoralgebra of the string theory. The duality group appears naturally as a subgroupof the automorphism group of the vertex operator algebra and spacetime dualityis shown to arise as the possibility of associating two independent Diracoperators, arising from the chiral structure of the worldsheet theory, to thenoncommutative geometry.
Homogeneity, Flatness and "Large" Extra Dimensions.  We consider a model in which the universe is the direct product of a(3+1)-dimensional Friedmann, Robertson-Walker (FRW) space and a compacthyperbolic manifold (CHM). Standard Model fields are confined to a point in theCHM (i.e. to a brane). In such a space, the decay of massive Kaluza-Klein modesleads to the injection of any initial bulk entropy into the observable (FRW)universe. Both Kolmogoro-Sinai mixing due to the non-integrability of flows onCHMs and the large statistical averaging inherent in the collapse of theinitial entropy onto the brane smooth out any initial inhomogeneities in thedistribution of matter and of 3-curvature on any slice of constant 3-position.If, as we assume, the initial densities and curvatures in each fundamentalcorrelation volume are drawn from some universal underlying distributionsindependent of location within the space, then these smoothing mechanismseffectively reduce the density and curvature inhomogeneities projected onto theFRW. This smoothing is sufficient to account for the current homogeneity andflatness of the universe. The fundamental scale of physics can be $\gsim 1$TeV.All relevant mass and length scales can have natural values in fundamentalunits. All large dimensionless numbers, such as the entropy of the universe,are understood as consequences of the topology of spacetime which is notexplained. No model for the origin of structure is proffered.
A Causal Entropy Bound.  The identification of a causal-connection scale motivates us to propose a newcovariant bound on entropy within a generic space-like region. This "causalentropy bound", scaling as the square root of EV, and thus lying around thegeometric mean of Bekenstein's S/ER and holographic S/A bounds, is checked invarious "critical" situations. In the case of limited gravity, Bekenstein'sbound is the strongest while naive holography is the weakest. In the case ofstrong gravity, our bound and Bousso's holographic bound are stronger thanBekenstein's, while naive holography is too tight, and hence typically wrong.
Quantum Cosmology and Conformal Invariance.  According to Belinsky, Khalatnikov and Lifshitz, gravity near a space-likesingularity reduces to a set of decoupled one-dimensional mechanical models ateach point in space. We point out that these models fall into a class ofconformal mechanical models first introduced by de Alfaro, Fubini and Furlan(DFF). The deformation used by DFF to render the spectrum discrete correspondsto a negative cosmological constant. The wave function of the universe is thezero-energy eigenmode of the Hamiltonian, also known as the spherical vector ofthe representation of the conformal group SO(1,2). A new class of conformalquantum mechanical models is constructed, based on the quantization ofnilpotent coadjoint orbits, where the conformal group is enhanced to an ADEnon-compact group for which the spherical vector is known.
Defect Lines in the Ising Model and Boundary States on Orbifolds.  Critical phenomena in the two-dimensional Ising model with a defect line arestudied using boundary conformal field theory on the $c=1$ orbifold. Novelfeatures of the boundary states arising from the orbifold structure, includingcontinuously varying boundary critical exponents, are elucidated. New featuresof the Ising defect problem are obtained including a novel universality classof defect lines and the universal boundary to bulk crossover of the spincorrelation function.
Chaos in Superstring Cosmology.  It is shown that the general solution near a spacelike singularity of theEinstein-dilaton-p-form field equations relevant to superstring theories andM-theory exhibits an oscillatory behaviour of theBelinskii-Khalatnikov-Lifshitz type. String dualities play a significant rolein the analysis.
A Comment on Zero-brane Quantum Mechanics.  We consider low energy, non-relativistic scattering of two Dirichletzero-branes as an exercise in quantum mechanics. For weak string coupling andsufficiently small velocity, the dynamics is governed by an effective U(2)gauge theory in 0+1 dimensions. At low energies, D-brane scattering canreliably probe distances much shorter than the string scale. The only lengthscale in the quantum mechanics problem is the eleven dimensional Planck length.This provides evidence for the role of scales shorter than the string length inthe weakly coupled dynamics of type IIA strings.
Holography, Cosmology and the Second Law of Thermodynamics.  We propose that in time dependent backgrounds the holographic principleshould be replaced by the generalized second law of thermodynamics. Forisotropic open and flat universes with a fixed equation of state, thegeneralized second law agrees with the cosmological holographic principleproposed by Fischler and Susskind. However, in more complicated spacetimes thetwo proposals disagree. A modified form of the holographic bound that appliesto a post-inflationary universe follows from the generalized second law.However, in a spatially closed universe, or inside a black hole event horizon,there is no simple relationship that connects the area of a region to themaximum entropy it can contain.
Complex BPS domain walls and phase transition in mass in supersymmetric  QCD.  We study the domain walls connecting different chirally asymmetric vacua insupersymmetric QCD. We show that BPS - saturated solutions exist only in thelimited range of mass. When m exceeds some critical value, the domain walleither ceases to be BPS - saturated or disappears altogether. In any case, theproperties of the system are qualitatively changed.
Towards the large N limit of pure N=1 super Yang Mills.  We find the gravity solution corresponding to a large number of NS or Dfivebranes wrapped on a two sphere so that we have pure ${\cal N}=1$ superYang-Mills in the IR. The supergravity solution is smooth, it shows confinementand it breaks the $U(1)_R$ chiral symmetry in the appropriate way. When thegravity approximation is valid the masses of glueballs are comparable to themasses of Kaluza Klein states on the fivebrane, but if we could quantizestrings on this background it looks like we should be able to decouple the KKstates.
Black Holes and Superconformal Mechanics.  The dynamics of a (super)particle near the horizon of an extremeReissner-Nordstrom black hole is shown to be governed by an action that reducesto a (super)conformal mechanics model in the limit of large black hole mass.
The Coulomb Phase of N=2 Supersymmetric QCD.  We present an explicit non-perturbative solution of N=2 supersymmetricSU(N_c) gauge theory with N_f \le 2N_c flavors generalizing results of Seibergand Witten for N_c=2.
The Vacuum Structure and Spectrum of N=2 Supersymmetric SU(N) Gauge  Theory.  We present an exact description of the metric on the moduli space of vacuaand the spectrum of massive states for four dimensional N=2 supersymmetricSU(n) gauge theories. The moduli space of quantum vacua is identified with themoduli space of a special set of genus n-1 hyperelliptic Riemann surfaces.
Evolution of cosmological perturbations in a brane-universe.  The present article analyses the impact on cosmology, in particular on theevolution of cosmological perturbations, of the existence of extra-dimensions.The model considered here is that of a five-dimensional Anti-de Sitterspacetime where ordinary matter is confined to a brane-universe. Thehomogeneous cosmology is recalled. The equations governing the evolution ofcosmological perturbations are presented in the most transparent way: they arerewritten in a form very close to the equations of standard cosmology with twotypes of corrections: a. corrections due to the unconventional evolution of thehomogeneous solution, which change the background-dependent coefficients of theequations; b. corrections due to the curvature along the fifth dimension, whichact as source terms in the evolution equations.
Universailty of Low Energy Absorption Cross-sections for Black Holes.  In this paper we compute the low energy absorption cross-section forminimally coupled massles scalars and spin-$1/2$ particles, into a generalspherically symmetric black hole in arbitrary dimensions. The scalars have across section equal to the area of the black hole, while the spin-$1/2$particles give the area measured in a flat spatial metric conformally relatedto the true metric.
A cosmological constant from degenerate vacua.  Under the hypothesis that the cosmological constant vanishes in the trueground state with lowest possible energy density, we argue that the observedsmall but finite vacuum-like energy density can be explained if we consider atheory with two or more degenerate perturbative vacua, which are unstable dueto quantum tunneling, and if we still live in one of such states. An example isgiven making use of the topological vacua in non-Abelian gauge theories.
A Statistical Interpretation of Space and Classical-Quantum duality.  By defining a prepotential function for the stationary Schr\"odinger equationwe derive an inversion formula for the space variable $x$ as a function of thewave-function $\psi$. The resulting equation is a Legendre transform thatrelates $x$, the prepotential ${\cal F}$, and the probability density. Weinvert the Schr\"odinger equation to a third-order differential equation for${\cal F}$ and observe that the inversion procedure implies a $x$-$\psi$duality. This phenomenon is related to a modular symmetry due to thesuperposition of the solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation. We propose thatin quantum mechanics the space coordinate can be interpreted as a macroscopicvariable of a statistical system with $\hbar$ playing the role of a scalingparameter. We show that the scaling property of the space coordinate withrespect to $\tau=\partial_{\psi}^2{\cal F}$ is determined by the``beta-function''. We propose that the quantization of the inversion formulais a natural way to quantize geometry. The formalism is extended to higherdimensions and to the Klein-Gordon equation.
The One-loop UV Divergent Structure of U(1) Yang-Mills Theory on  Noncommutative R^4.  We show that U(1) Yang-Mills theory on noncommutative R^4 can be renormalizedat the one-loop level by multiplicative dimensional renormalization of thecoupling constant and fields of the theory. We compute the beta function of thetheory and conclude that the theory is asymptotically free. We also show thatthe Weyl-Moyal matrix defining the deformed product over the space of functionson R^4 is not renormalized at the one-loop level.
BPS states in M-theory and twistorial constituents.  We provide a complete algebraic description of BPS states in M-theory interms of primary constituents that we call BPS preons. We argue that any BPSstate preserving $k$ of the 32 supersymmetries is a composite of (32-k) BPSpreons. In particular, the BPS states corresponding to the basic M2 and M5branes are composed of 16 BPS preons. By extending the M-algebra to ageneralized D=11 conformal superalgebra $osp(1|64)$ we relate the BPS preonswith its fundamental representation, the D=11 supertwistors.
(De)Constructing Dimensions.  We construct renormalizable, asymptotically free, four dimensional gaugetheories that dynamically generate a fifth dimension.
Uniqueness and non-uniqueness of static black holes in higher dimensions.  We prove a uniqueness theorem for asymptotically flat static charged dilatonblack hole solutions in higher dimensional space-times. We also constructinfinitely many non-asymptotically flat regular static black holes on the samespace-time manifold with the same spherical topology. An application to theuniqueness of a certain class of flat $p$-branes is also given.
Domain walls in supersymmetric QCD: from weak to strong coupling.  We consider domain walls that appear in supersymmetric QCD with Nf < Ncmassive flavours. In particular, for 2 Nf < Nc we explicitly construct thedomain walls that interpolate between vacua labeled by i and (i+ N_f). We showthat these solutions are Bogomol'nyi-Prasad-Sommerfield (BPS) saturated for anyvalue of the mass of the matter fields. This fact allows us to evaluate thelarge mass limit of these domain walls. We comment on the relevance of thesesolutions for supersymmetric gluodynamics.
Extremal black holes as exact string solutions.  We show that the leading order solution describing an extremal electricallycharged black hole in string theory is, in fact, an exact solution to allorders in $\a'$ when interpreted in a Kaluza-Klein fashion. This follows fromthe observation that it can be obtained via dimensional reduction from a fivedimensional background which is proved to be an exact string solution.
Quasi-Localization of Gravity by Resonant Modes.  We examine the behaviour of gravity in brane theories with extra dimensionsin a non-factorizable geometry. We find that for metrics which areasymptotically flat far from the brane there is a resonant graviton mode atzero energy. The presence of this resonance ensures quasi-localization ofgravity, whereby at intermediate scales the gravitational laws on the brane areapproximately four dimensional. However, for scales larger than the lifetime ofthe graviton resonance the five dimensional laws of gravity will be reproduceddue to the decay of the four dimensional graviton. We also present a simpleclassification of the possible types of effective gravity theories on the branethat can appear for general non-factorizable background theories.
Bound States of String Networks and D-branes.  We show the existence of non-threshold bound states of (p, q) string networksand D3-branes, preserving 1/4 of the full type IIB supersymmetry, interpretedas string networks dissolved in D3-branes. We also write down the expressionfor the mass density of the system and discuss the extension of theconstruction to other Dp-branes. Differences in our construction of stringnetworks with the ones interpreted as dyons in N=4 gauge theories are alsopointed out.
Calogero-Moser models with noncommutative spin interactions.  We construct integrable generalizations of the ellipticCalogero-Sutherland-Moser model of particles with spin, involvingnoncommutative spin interactions. The spin coupling potential is a modularfunction and, generically, breaks the global spin symmetry of the model down toa product of U(1) phase symmetries. Previously known models are recovered asspecial cases.
4d Conformal Field Theories and Strings on Orbifolds.  We propose correspondences between 4d quantum field theories with N=2,1,0(super)conformal invariance and Type IIB string theory on various orbifolds. Weargue using the spacetime string theory, and check using the beta functions(exactly for N=2,1 and so far at 1-loop for the gauge couplings in the N=0case), that these theories have conformal fixed lines. The latter casepotentially gives well-defined non-supersymmetric vacua of string theory, witha mechanism for making the curvature and cosmological constant small atnontrivial string coupling. We suggest a correspondence betweennonsupersymmetric conformal fixed lines and nonsupersymmetric string vacua withvanishing vacuum energy.
Maximally Supersymmetric String Theories in D<10.  The existence of maximally supersymmetric solutions to heterotic stringtheory that are not toroidal compactifications of the ten-dimensionalsuperstring is established. We construct an exact fermionic realization of anN=1 supersymmetric string theory in D=8 with non-simply-laced gauge groupSp(20). Toroidal compactification to six and four dimensions gives maximallyextended supersymmetric theories with reduced rank (4,12) and (6,14)respectively.
High Energy Field Theory in Truncated AdS Backgrounds.  In this letter we show that, in five-dimensional anti-deSitter space (AdS)truncated by boundary branes, effective field theory techniques are reliable athigh energy (much higher than the scale suggested by the Kaluza-Klein massgap), provided one computes suitable observables. We argue that in the model ofRandall and Sundrum for generating the weak scale from the AdS warp factor, thehigh energy behavior of gauge fields can be calculated in a {\em cutoffindependent manner}, provided one restricts Green's functions to externalpoints on the Planck brane. Using the AdS/CFT correspondence, we calculate theone-loop correction to the Planck brane gauge propagator due to charged bulkfields. These effects give rise to non-universal logarithmic energy dependencefor a range of scales above the Kaluza-Klein gap.
Black Hole Entropy from Conformal Field Theory in Any Dimension.  Restricted to a black hole horizon, the ``gauge'' algebra of surfacedeformations in general relativity contains a Virasoro subalgebra with acalculable central charge. The fields in any quantum theory of gravity musttransform accordingly, i.e., they must admit a conformal field theorydescription. Applying Cardy's formula for the asymptotic density of states, Iuse this result to derive the Bekenstein-Hawking entropy. This method isuniversal---it holds for any black hole, and requires no details of quantumgravity---but it is also explicitly statistical mechanical, based on countingmicroscopic states.
On the Matrix Description of Calabi-Yau Compactifications.  We point out that the matrix description of M-theory compactified onCalabi-Yau threefolds is in many respects simpler than the matrix descriptionof a $T^6$ compactification. This is largely because of the differences betweenD6 branes wrapped on Calabi-Yau threefolds and D6 branes wrapped on six-tori.In particular, if we define the matrix theory following the prescription of Senand Seiberg, we find that the remaining degrees of freedom are decoupled fromgravity.
Maximal gauged supergravity in three dimensions.  We construct maximally supersymmetric gauged N=16 supergravity in threedimensions, thereby obtaining an entirely new class of AdS supergravities.These models are not derivable from any known higher-dimensional theory,indicating the existence of a new type of supergravity beyond D=11. They areexpected to be of special importance also for the conjectured AdS/CFTcorrespondence. One of their noteworthy features is a nonabelian generalizationof the duality between scalar and vector fields in three dimensions. Among thepossible gauge groups, SO(8)xSO(8) is distinguished as the maximal compactgauge group, but there are also more exotic possibilities such as F_4 x G_2.
Making Ends Meet: String Unification and Low-Energy Data.  A long-standing problem in string phenomenology has been the fact that thestring unification scale disagrees with the GUT scale obtained by extrapolatinglow-energy data within the framework of the minimal supersymmetric standardmodel (MSSM). In this paper we examine several effects that may modify theminimal string predictions and thereby bring string-scale unification intoagreement with low-energy data. These include heavy string thresholdcorrections, non-standard hypercharge normalizations, light SUSY thresholds,intermediate gauge structure, and thresholds arising from extra matter beyondthe MSSM. We explicitly evaluate these contributions within a variety ofrealistic free-fermionic string models, including the flipped SU(5), SO(6) xSO(4), and various SU(3) x SU(2) x U(1) models, and find that most of thesesources do not substantially alter the minimal string predictions. Indeed, wefind that the only way to reconcile string unification with low-energy data isthrough certain types of extra matter. Remarkably, however, many of therealistic string models contain precisely this required matter in theirlow-energy spectra.
D-Particle Dynamics and The Space-Time Uncertainty Relation.  We argue that the space-time uncertainty relation of the form $\Delta Xto time, $\Delta T$, and space, $\Delta X$, is universally valid in stringtheory including D-branes. This relation has been previously proposed by one(T.Y.) of the present authors as a simple qualitative representation of theperturbative short distance structure of fundamental string theory. We showthat the relation, combined with the usual quantum mechanical uncertaintyprinciple, explains the key qualitative features of D-particle dynamics.
QCD-Like Behaviour of High-Temperature Confining Strings.  We show that, contrary to previous string models, the high-temperaturebehaviour of the recently proposed confining strings reproduces exactly thecorrect large-N QCD result, a {\it necessary} condition for any string model ofconfinement.
Phase Transitions for Flat adS Black Holes.  We reexamine the thermodynamics of adS black holes with Ricci flat horizonsusing the adS soliton as the thermal background. We find that there is a phasetransition which is dependent not only on the temperature, but also on theblack hole area, which is an independent parameter. As in the spherical adSblack hole, this phase transition is related via the adS/CFT correspondence toa confinement-deconfinement transition in the large N gauge theory on theconformal boundary at infinity.
Black Hole as a Point Radiator and Recoil Effect on the Brane World.  A small black hole attached to a brane in a higher dimensional space emittingquanta into the bulk may leave the brane as a result of a recoil. We constructa field theory model in which such a black hole is described as a massivescalar particle with internal degrees of freedom. In this model, theprobability of transition between the different internal levels followed byemission of massless quanta is identical to the probability of thermal emissioncalculated for the Schwarzschild black hole. The discussed recoil effectimplies that the thermal emission of the black holes, which might be created byinteraction of high energy particles in colliders, could be terminated and theenergy non-conservation can be observed in the brane experiments.
Tiling with almost-BPS states.  In the light of recent studies of BPS triple junctions in the Wess-Zuminomodel we describe techniques to construct infinite lattices using similarjunctions. It is shown that whilst these states are only approximately locallyBPS they are nevertheless stable to small perturbations, giving a metastabletiling of the plane.
Statistical Entropy of Nonextremal Four-Dimensional Black Holes and  U-Duality.  We identify the states in string theory which are responsible for the entropyof near-extremal rotating four-dimensional black holes in $N=8$ supergravity.For black holes far from extremality (with no rotation), the Bekenstein-Hawkingentropy is exactly matched by a mysterious duality invariant extension of theformulas derived for near-extremal black holes states.
Critical phenomena of thick branes in warped spacetimes.  We have investigated the effects of a generic bulk first-order phasetransition on thick Minkowski branes in warped geometries. As occurs inEuclidean space, when the system is brought near the phase transition aninterface separating two ordered phases splits into two interfaces with adisordered phase in between. A remarkable and distinctive feature is that thecritical temperature of the phase transition is lowered due to pure geometricaleffects. We have studied a variety of critical exponents and the evolution ofthe transverse-traceless sector of the metric fluctuations.
Supersymmetry of the 2+1 black holes.  The supersymmetry properties of the asymptotically anti-de Sitter black holesof Einstein theory in 2+1 dimensions are investigated. It is shown that (i) thezero mass black hole has two exact super- symmetries; (ii) extreme $lM=|J|$black holes with $M \not= 0$ have only one; and (iii) generic black holes donot have any. It is also argued that the zero mass hole is the ground state of(1,1)-adS supergravity with periodic (``Ramond") boundary conditions on thespinor fields.
Statistical Entropy of Four-Dimensional Extremal Black Holes.  String theory is used to count microstates of four-dimensional extremal blackholes in compactifications with $N=4$ and $N=8$ supersymmetry. The resultagrees for large charges with the Bekenstein-Hawking entropy.
A rotating black ring in five dimensions.  The vacuum Einstein equations in five dimensions are shown to admit asolution describing an asymptotically flat spacetime regular on and outside anevent horizon of topology S^1 x S^2. It describes a rotating ``black ring''.This is the first example of an asymptotically flat vacuum solution with anevent horizon of non-spherical topology. There is a range of values for themass and angular momentum for which there exist two black ring solutions aswell as a black hole solution. Therefore the uniqueness theorems valid in fourdimensions do not have simple higher dimensional generalizations. It issuggested that increasing the spin of a five dimensional black hole beyond acritical value results in a transition to a black ring, which can have anarbitrarily large angular momentum for a given mass.
The linear spectrum of OSp(32|1) Chern-Simons supergravity in eleven  dimensions.  We study linearized perturbations of eleven-dimensional $OSp(32|1)$Chern-Simons supergravity. The action contains a term that changes the value ofthe cosmological constant, as considered by Horava. It is shown that thespectrum contains a 3-form and a 6-form whose field strengths are dual to eachother, thus providing a link with the eleven-dimensional supergravity ofCremmer, Julia and Scherk. The linearized equations for the graviton andRarita-Schwinger field are shown to be the standard ones as well.
Kaluza-Klein Dyons in String Theory.  S-duality of hetertotic / type II string theory compactified on a sixdimensional torus requires the existence of Kaluza-Klein dyons, carryingwinding charge. We identify the zero modes of the Kaluza-Klein monopolesolution which are responsible for these dyonic excitations, and show that weget the correct degeneracy of dyons as predicted by S-duality. The self-dualharmonic two form on the Euclidean Taub-NUT space plays a crucial role in thisconstruction.
Domain walls without cosmological constant in higher order gravity.  We consider a class of higher order corrections with arbitrary power $n$ ofthe curvature tensor to the standard gravity action in arbitrary space-timedimension $D$. The corrections are in the form of Euler densities and areunique at each $n$ and $D$. We present a generating functional and an explicitform of the corresponding conserved energy-momentum tensors. The case ofconformally flat metrics is discussed in detail. We show that this class ofcorrections allows for domain wall solutions since, despite the presence ofhigher powers of the curvature tensor, the singularity structure at the wall isof the same type as in the standard gravity. However, models with higher ordercorrections have larger set of domain wall solutions and the existence of thesesolutions no longer depends on the presence of cosmological constants. We findfor example that the Randall-Sundrum scenario can be realized without any needfor bulk and/or brane cosmological constant.
Counting States of Near-Extremal Black Holes.  A six-dimensional black string is considered and its Bekenstein-Hawkingentropy computed. It is shown that to leading order above extremality, thisentropy precisely counts the number of string states with the given energy andcharges. This identification implies that Hawking decay of the near-extremalblack string can be analyzed in string perturbation theory and isperturbatively unitary.
Moduli, Scalar Charges, and the First Law of Black Hole Thermodynamics.  We show that under variation of moduli fields $\phi$ the first law of blackhole thermodynamics becomes $dM = {\kappa dA\over 8\pi} + \Omega dJ + \psi dq +that the ADM mass is extremized at fixed $A$, $J$, $(p,q)$ when the modulifields take the fixed value $\phi_{\rm fix}(p,q)$ which depend only on electricand magnetic charges. It follows that the least mass of any black hole withfixed conserved electric and magnetic charges is given by the mass of thedouble-extreme black hole with these charges. Our work allows us to interpretthe previously established result that for all extreme black holes the modulifields at the horizon take a value $\phi= \phi_{\rm fix}(p,q)$ depending onlyon the electric and magnetic conserved charges: $ \phi_{\rm fix}(p,q)$ is suchthat the scalar charges $\Sigma ( \phi_{\rm fix}, (p,q))=0$.
Statistical Origin of Black Hole Entropy in Matrix Theory.  The statistical entropy of black holes in M-theory is considered. AssumingMatrix theory is the discretized light-cone quantization of a theory witheleven-dimensional Lorentz invariance, we map the counting problem onto theoriginal Gibbons-Hawking calculation of the thermodynamic entropy.
Nonperturbative Renormalization Group Equation and Beta Function in N=2  SUSY Yang-Mills.  We obtain the exact beta function for $N=2$ SUSY $SU(2)$ Yang-Mills theoryand prove the nonperturbative Renormalization Group Equation $${dx \beta^{-1}(x)}}. $$
E_(10), BE_(10) and Arithmetical Chaos in Superstring Cosmology.  It is shown that the never ending oscillatory behaviour of the genericsolution, near a cosmological singularity, of the massless bosonic sector ofsuperstring theory can be described as a billiard motion within a simplex in9-dimensional hyperbolic space. The Coxeter group of reflections of thisbilliard is discrete and is the Weyl group of the hyperbolic Kac-Moody algebraE$_{10}$ (for type II) or BE$_{10}$ (for type I or heterotic), which are botharithmetic. These results lead to a proof of the chaotic (``Anosov'') nature ofthe classical cosmological oscillations, and suggest a ``chaotic quantumbilliard'' scenario of vacuum selection in string theory.
Renormalization of gauge invariant operators and anomalies in Yang-Mills  theory.  A long-standing conjecture on the structure of renormalized, gauge invariant,integrated operators of arbitrary dimension in Yang-Mills theory isestablished. The general solution of the consistency condition for anomalieswith sources included is also derived. This is achieved by computingexplicitely the cohomology of the full unrestricted BRST operator in the spaceof local polynomial functionals with ghost number equal to zero or one. Theargument does not use power counting and is purely cohomological. It reliescrucially on standard properties of the antifield formalism.
Gauge theories on the noncommutative sphere.  Gauge theories are formulated on the noncommutative two-sphere. Thesetheories have only finite number of degrees of freedom, nevertheless theyexhibit both the gauge symmetry and the SU(2) "Poincar\'e" symmetry of thesphere. In particular, the coupling of gauge fields to chiral fermions isnaturally achieved.
Noncommutative Geometry and Gauge Theory on Fuzzy Sphere.  The differential algebra on the fuzzy sphere is constructed by applyingConnes' scheme. The U(1) gauge theory on the fuzzy sphere based on thisdifferential algebra is defined. The local U(1) gauge transformation on thefuzzy sphere is identified with the left $U(N+1)$ transformation of the field,where a field is a bimodule over the quantized algebra $\CA_N$. The interactionwith a complex scalar field is also given.
Local BRST cohomology in the antifield formalism: I. General theorems.  We establish general theorems on the cohomology $H^*(s|d)$ of the BRSTdifferential modulo the spacetime exterior derivative, acting in the algebra oflocal $p$-forms depending on the fields and the antifields (=sources for theBRST variations). It is shown that $H^{-k}(s|d)$ is isomorphic to $H_k(\delta|d)$ in negative ghost degree $-k\ (k>0)$, where $\delta$ is the Koszul-Tatedifferential associated with the stationary surface. The cohomological group$H_1(\delta |d)$ in form degree $n$ is proved to be isomorphic to the space ofconstants of the motion, thereby providing a cohomological reformulation ofNoether theorem. More generally, the group $H_k(\delta|d)$ in form degree $n$is isomorphic to the space of $n-k$ forms that are closed when the equations ofmotion hold. The groups $H_k(\delta|d)$ $(k>2)$ are shown to vanish forstandard irreducible gauge theories. The group $H_2(\delta|d)$ is thencalculated explicitly for electromagnetism, Yang-Mills models and Einsteingravity. The invariance of the groups $H^{k}(s|d)$ under the introduction ofnon minimal variables and of auxiliary
On equivalence of Floer's and quantum cohomology.  (In the revised version the relevant aspect of noncompactness of the moduliof instantons is discussed. It is shown nonperturbatively that any BRST trivialdeformation of A-model which does not change the ranks of BRST cohomology doesnot change the topological correlation functions either) We show that the Floercohomology and quantum cohomology rings of the almost Kahler manifold M, bothdefined over the Novikov ring of the loop space LM of M, are isomorphic. We doit using a BRST trivial deformation of the topological A-model. As an examplewe compute the Floer = quantum cohomology of the 3-dimensional flag space Fl_3.
Noncommutative Instantons and Twistor Transform.  Recently N.Nekrasov and A.Schwarz proposed a modification of the ADHMconstruction of instantons which produces instantons on a noncommutativedeformation of the 4-dimensional real affine space. In this paper we study therelation between their construction and algebraic bundles on noncommutativeprojective spaces. We exhibit one-to-one correspondences between three classesof objects: framed bundles on a noncommutative projective plane, certaincomplexes of sheaves on a noncommutative 3-dimensional projective space, andthe modified ADHM data. The modified ADHM construction itself is interpreted interms of a noncommutative version of the twistor transform. We also prove thatthe moduli space of framed bundles on the noncommutative projective plane has anatural hyperkahler metric and is isomorphic as a hyperkahler manifold to themoduli space of framed torsion free sheaves on the commutative projectiveplane. The natural complex structures on the two moduli spaces do not coincidebut are related by an SO(3) rotation. Finally, we propose a construction ofinstantons on a more general noncommutative R^4 than the one considered byNekrasov and Schwarz (a q-deformed R^4).
Chirality and Dirac Operator on Noncommutative Sphere.  We give a derivation of the Dirac operator on the noncommutative $2$-spherewithin the framework of the bosonic fuzzy sphere and define Connes' triple. Itturns out that there are two different types of spectra of the Dirac operatorand correspondingly there are two classes of quantized algebras. As a result weobtain a new restriction on the Planck constant in Berezin's quantization. Themap to the local frame in noncommutative geometry is also discussed.
New Perspectives on the BRST-algebraic Structure of String Theory.  Motivated by the descent equation in string theory, we give a newinterpretation for the action of the symmetry charges on the BRST cohomology interms of what we call {\em the Gerstenhaber bracket}. This bracket iscompatible with the graded commutative product in cohomology, and hence givesrise to a new class of examples of what mathematicians call a {\em Gerstenhaberalgebra}. The latter structure was first discussed in the context of Hochschildcohomology theory \cite{Gers1}. Off-shell in the (chiral) BRST complex, all theidentities of a Gerstenhaber algebra hold up to homotopy. Applying our theoryto the c=1 model, we give a precise conceptual description of theBRST-Gerstenhaber algebra of this model. We are led to a direct connectionbetween the bracket structure here and the anti-bracket formalism in BV theoryand the right movers. We suggest that the homotopy Lie algebra arising from ourGerstenhaber bracket is closely related to the HLA recently constructed byWitten-Zwiebach. Finally, we show that our constructions generalize to anytopological conformal field theory.
Characteristic cohomology of $p$-form gauge theories.  The characteristic cohomology $H^k_{char}(d)$ for an arbitrary set of free$p$-form gauge fields is explicitly worked out in all form degrees $k<n-1$,where $n$ is the spacetime dimension. It is shown that this cohomology isfinite-dimensional and completely generated by the forms dual to the fieldstrengths. The gauge invariant characteristic cohomology is also computed. Theresults are extended to interacting $p$-form gauge theories with gaugeinvariant interactions. Implications for the BRST cohomology are mentioned.
Field Theory on a Supersymmetric Lattice.  A lattice-type regularization of the supersymmetric field theories on asupersphere is constructed by approximating the ring of scalar superfields byan integer-valued sequence of finite dimensional rings of supermatrices and byusing the differencial calculus of non-commutative geometry. The regulatedtheory involves only finite number of degrees of freedom and is manifestlysupersymmetric.
Duality Symmetries and Noncommutative Geometry of String Spacetime.  We examine the structure of spacetime symmetries of toroidally compactifiedstring theory within the framework of noncommutative geometry. Following aproposal of Frohlich and Gawedzki, we describe the noncommutative stringspacetime using a detailed algebraic construction of the vertex operatoralgebra. We show that the spacetime duality and discrete worldsheet symmetriesof the string theory are a consequence of the existence of two independentDirac operators, arising from the chiral structure of the conformal fieldtheory. We demonstrate that these Dirac operators are also responsible for theemergence of ordinary classical spacetime as a low-energy limit of the stringspacetime, and from this we establish a relationship between T-duality andchanges of spin structure of the target space manifold. We study theautomorphism group of the vertex operator algebra and show that spacetimeduality is naturally a gauge symmetry in this formalism. We show that classicalgeneral covariance also becomes a gauge symmetry of the string spacetime. Weexplore some larger symmetries of the algebra in the context of a universalgauge group for string theory, and connect these symmetry groups with some ofthe algebraic structures which arise in the mathematical theory of vertexoperator algebras, such as the Monster group. We also briefly describe how theclassical topology of spacetime is modified by the string theory, and calculatethe cohomology groups of the noncommutative spacetime. A self-contained,pedagogical introduction to the techniques of noncommmutative geometry is alsoincluded.
Conformal Field Theories, Representations and Lattice Constructions.  An account is given of the structure and representations of chiral bosonicmeromorphic conformal field theories (CFT's), and, in particular, theconditions under which such a CFT may be extended by a representation to form anew theory. This general approach is illustrated by considering the untwistedand $Z_2$-twisted theories, $H(\Lambda)$ and $\tilde H(\Lambda)$ respectively,which may be constructed from a suitable even Euclidean lattice $\Lambda$.Similarly, one may construct lattices $\Lambda_C$ and $\tilde\Lambda_C$ byanalogous constructions from a doubly-even binary code $C$. In the case when$C$ is self-dual, the corresponding lattices are also. Similarly, $H(\Lambda)$and $\tilde H(\Lambda)$ are self-dual if and only if $\Lambda$ is. We show that$H(\Lambda_C)$ has a natural ``triality'' structure, which induces anisomorphism $H(\tilde\Lambda_C)\equiv\tilde H(\Lambda_C)$ and also a trialitystructure on $\tilde H(\tilde\Lambda_C)$. For $C$ the Golay code,$\tilde\Lambda_C$ is the Leech lattice, and the triality on $\tildeH(\tilde\Lambda_C)$ is the symmetry which extends the natural action of (anextension of) Conway's group on this theory to the Monster, so setting trialityand Frenkel, Lepowsky and Meurman's construction of the natural Monster modulein a more general context. The results also serve to shed some light on theclassification of self-dual CFT's. We find that of the 48 theories $H(\Lambda)$and $\tilde H(\Lambda)$ with central charge 24 that there are 39 distinct ones,and further that all 9 coincidences are accounted for by the isomorphismdetailed above, induced by the existence of a doubly-even self-dual binarycode.
Topologically nontrivial field configurations in noncommutative geometry.  In the framework of noncommutative geometry we describe spinor fields withnonvanishing winding number on a truncated (fuzzy) sphere. The correspondingfield theory actions conserve all basic symmetries of the standard commutativeversion (space isometries and global chiral symmetry), but due to thenoncommutativity of the space the fields are regularized and they contain onlyfinite number of modes.
Large N 2D Yang-Mills Theory and Topological String Theory.  We describe a topological string theory which reproduces many aspects of the1/N expansion of SU(N) Yang-Mills theory in two spacetime dimensions in thezero coupling (A=0) limit. The string theory is a modified version oftopological gravity coupled to a topological sigma model with spacetime astarget. The derivation of the string theory relies on a new interpretation ofGross and Taylor's ``\Omega^{-1} points.'' We describe how inclusion of thearea, coupling of chiral sectors, and Wilson loop expectation values can beincorporated in the topological string approach.
An extended fuzzy supersphere and twisted chiral superfields.  A noncommutative associative algebra of N=2 fuzzy supersphere is introduced.It turns out to possess a nontrivial automorphism which relates twisted chiralto twisted anti-chiral superfields and hence makes possible to constructnoncommutative nonlinear $\si$-models with extended supersymmetry.
On the Structure of the Small Quantum Cohomology Rings of Projective  Hypersurfaces.  We give an explicit procedure which computes for degree $d \leq 3$ thecorrelation functions of topological sigma model (A-model) on a projective Fanohypersurface $X$ as homogeneous polynomials of degree $d$ in the correlationfunctions of degree 1 (number of lines). We extend this formalism to the caseof Calabi-Yau hypersurfaces and explain how the polynomial property ispreserved. Our key tool is the construction of universal recursive formulaswhich express the structural constants of the quantum cohomology ring of $X$ asweighted homogeneous polynomial functions in the constants of the Fanohypersurface with the same degree and dimension one more. We propose someconjectures about the existence and the form of the recursive formulas for thestructural constants of rational curves of arbitrary degree. Our recursiveformulas should yield the coefficients of the hypergeometric series used in themirror calculation. Assuming the validity of the conjectures we find therecursive laws for rational curves of degree 4 and 5.
Holomorphic Bundles and Many-Body Systems.  We show that spin generalization of elliptic Calogero-Moser system, ellipticextension of Gaudin model and their cousins can be treated as a degenerationsof Hitchin systems. Applications to the constructions of integrals of motion,angle-action variables and quantum systems are discussed. Explicit formulas forthe Lax operator on the higher genus surfaces are obtained in the Shottkyparameterization. The constructions are motivated by the Conformal FieldTheory, and their quantum counterpart can be treated as a degeneration of thecritical level Knizhnik-Zamolodchikov-Bernard equations.
Equivalence of Projections as Gauge Equivalence on Noncommutative Space.  Projections play crucial roles in the ADHM construction on noncommutative$\R^4$. In this article a framework for the description of equivalencerelations between projections is proposed. We treat the equivalence ofprojections as ``gauge equivalence'' on noncommutative space. We find aninteresting application of this framework to the study of U(2) instanton onnoncommutative $\R^4$: A zero winding number configuration with a hole at theorigin is ``gauge equivalent'' to the noncommutative analog of the BPSTinstanton. Thus the ``gauge transformation'' in this case can be understood asa noncommutative resolution of the singular gauge transformation in ordinary$\R^4$.
The Gervais-Neveu-Felder equation and the quantum Calogero-Moser systems.  We quantize the spin Calogero-Moser model in the $R$-matrix formalism. Thequantum $R$-matrix of the model is dynamical. This $R$-matrix has alreadyappeared in Gervais-Neveu's quantization of Toda field theory and in Felder'squantization of the Knizhnik-Zamolodchikov-Bernard equation.
Hopf Algebras, Renormalization and Noncommutative Geometry.  We explore the relation between the Hopf algebra associated to therenormalization of QFT and the Hopf algebra associated to the NCG computationsof transverse index theory for foliations.
Monopoles and Solitons in Fuzzy Physics.  Monopoles and solitons have important topological aspects like quantizedfluxes, winding numbers and curved target spaces. Naive discretizations whichsubstitute a lattice of points for the underlying manifolds are incapable ofretaining these features in a precise way. We study these problems of discretephysics and matrix models and discuss mathematically coherent discretizationsof monopoles and solitons using fuzzy physics and noncommutative geometry. Afuzzy sigma-model action for the two-sphere fulfilling a fuzzy Belavin-Polyakovbound is also put forth.
K-Theory, Reality, and Orientifolds.  We use equivariant K-theory to classify charges of new (possiblynon-supersymmetric) states localized on various orientifolds in Type II stringtheory. We also comment on the stringy construction of new D-branes anddemonstrate the discrete electric-magnetic duality in Type I brane systems withp+q=7, as proposed by Witten.
Donaldson invariants of product ruled surfaces and two-dimensional gauge  theories.  Using the u-plane integral of Moore and Witten, we derive a simple expressionfor the Donaldson invariants of $\Sigma_g \times S^2$, where $\Sigma_g$ is aRiemann surface of genus g. This expression generalizes a theorem of Morgan andSzabo for g=1 to any genus g. We give two applications of our results: (1) Wederive Thaddeus' formulae for the intersection pairings on the moduli space ofrank two stable bundles over a Riemann surface. (2) We derive the eigenvaluespectrum of the Fukaya-Floer cohomology of $\Sigma_g \times S^1$.
Separation of Variables in the Classical Integrable SL(3) Magnetic Chain.  There are two fundamental problems studied by the theory of hamiltonianintegrable systems: integration of equations of motion, and construction ofaction-angle variables. The third problem, however, should be added to thelist: separation of variables. Though much simpler than two others, it hasimportant relations to the quantum integrability. Separation of variables isconstructed for the $SL(3)$ magnetic chain --- an example of integrable modelassociated to a nonhyperelliptic algebraic curve.
Zeta-function regularization, the multiplicative anomaly and the  Wodzicki residue.  The multiplicative anomaly associated with the zeta-function regularizeddeterminant is computed for the Laplace-type operators $L_1=-\lap+V_1$ and$L_2=-\lap+V_2$, with $V_1$, $V_2$ constant, in a D-dimensional compact smoothmanifold $ M_D$, making use of several results due to Wodzicki and by directcalculations in some explicit examples. It is found that the multiplicativeanomaly is vanishing for $D$ odd and for D=2. An application to the one-loopeffective potential of the O(2) self-interacting scalar model is outlined.
Gauge theories on manifolds with boundary.  The boundary-value problem for Laplace-type operators acting on smoothsections of a vector bundle over a compact Riemannian manifold with generalizedlocal boundary conditions including both normal and tangential derivatives isstudied. The condition of strong ellipticity of this boundary-value problem isformulated. The resolvent kernel and the heat kernel in the leadingapproximation are explicitly constructed. As a result, the previous work in theliterature on heat-kernel asymptotics is shown to be a particular case of amore general structure. For a bosonic gauge theory on a compact Riemannianmanifold with smooth boundary, the problem is studied of obtaining agauge-field operator of Laplace type, jointly with local and gauge-invariantboundary conditions, which should lead to a strongly elliptic boundary-valueproblem. The scheme is extended to fermionic gauge theories by means of localand gauge-invariant projectors. After deriving a general condition for thevalidity of strong ellipticity for gauge theories, it is proved that forEuclidean Yang--Mills theory and Rarita--Schwinger fields all the aboveconditions can be satisfied. For Euclidean quantum gravity, however, thisproperty no longer holds, i.e. the corresponding boundary-value problem is notstrongly elliptic. Some non-standard local formulae for the leading asymptoticsof the heat-kernel diagonal are also obtained. It is shown that, due to theabsence of strong ellipticity, the heat-kernel diagonal is non-integrable nearthe boundary.
Almost Flat Planar Diagrams.  We continue our study of matrix models of dually weighted graphs. Among theattractive features of these models is the possibility to interpolate betweenensembles of regular and random two-dimensional lattices, relevant for thestudy of the crossover from two-dimensional flat space to two-dimensionalquantum gravity. We further develop the formalism of large $N$ characterexpansions. In particular, a general method for determining the large $N$ limitof a character is derived. This method, aside from being potentially useful fora far greater class of problems, allows us to exactly solve the matrix modelsof dually weighted graphs, reducing them to a well-posed Cauchy-Riemannproblem. The power of the method is illustrated by explicitly solving a newmodel in which only positive curvature defects are permitted on the surface, anarbitrary amount of negative curvature being introduced at a single insertion.
Supercoherent States, Super K\"ahler Geometry and Geometric Quantization.  Generalized coherent states provide a means of connecting square integrablerepresentations of a semi-simple Lie group with the symplectic geometry of someof its homogeneous spaces. In the first part of the present work this point ofview is extended to the supersymmetric context, through the study of theOSp(2/2) coherent states. These are explicitly constructed starting from theknown abstract typical and atypical representations of osp(2/2). Theirunderlying geometries turn out to be those of supersymplectic OSp(2/2)homogeneous spaces. Moment maps identifying the latter with coadjoint orbits ofOSp(2/2) are exhibited via Berezin's symbols. When considered withinRothstein's general paradigm, these results lead to a natural generaldefinition of a super K\"ahler supermanifold, the supergeometry of which isdetermined in terms of the usual geometry of holomorphic Hermitian vectorbundles over K\"ahler manifolds. In particular, the supergeometry of the aboveorbits is interpreted in terms of the geometry of Einstein-Hermitian vectorbundles. In the second part, an extension of the full geometric quantizationprocedure is applied to the same coadjoint orbits. Thanks to the super K\"ahlercharacter of the latter, this procedure leads to explicit super unitaryirreducible representations of OSp(2/2) in super Hilbert spaces of $L^2$superholomorphic sections of prequantum bundles of the Kostant type. This worklays the foundations of a program aimed at classifying Lie supergroups'coadjoint orbits and their associated irreducible representations, ultimatelyleading to harmonic superanalysis. For this purpose a set of consistentconventions is exhibited.
Vector bundles and Lax equations on algebraic curves.  The Hamiltonian theory of zero-curvature equations with spectral parameter onan arbitrary compact Riemann surface is constructed. It is shown that theequations can be seen as commuting flows of an infinite-dimensional fieldgeneralization of the Hitchin system. The field analog of the ellipticCalogero-Moser system is proposed. An explicit parameterization of Hitchinsystem based on the Tyurin parameters for stable holomorphic vector bundles onalgebraic curves is obtained.
Special Quantum Field Theories In Eight And Other Dimensions.  We build nearly topological quantum field theories in various dimensions. Wegive special attention to the case of 8 dimensions for which we first considertheories depending only on Yang-Mills fields. Two classes of gauge functionsexist which correspond to the choices of two different holonomy groups inSO(8), namely SU(4) and Spin(7). The choice of SU(4) gives a quantum fieldtheory for a Calabi-Yau fourfold. The expectation values for the observablesare formally holomorphic Donaldson invariants. The choice of Spin(7) definesanother eight dimensional theory for a Joyce manifold which could be ofrelevance in M- and F-theories. Relations to the eight dimensionalsupersymmetric Yang-Mills theory are presented. Then, by dimensional reduction,we obtain other theories, in particular a four dimensional one whose gaugeconditions are identical to the non-abelian Seiberg-Witten equations. Thelatter are thus related to pure Yang-Mills self-duality equations in 8dimensions as well as to the N=1, D=10 super Yang-Mills theory. We also exhibita theory that couples 3-form gauge fields to the second Chern class in eightdimensions, and interesting theories in other dimensions.
Conformal and Quasiconformal Realizations of Exceptional Lie Groups.  We present a nonlinear realization of E_8 on a space of 57 dimensions, whichis quasiconformal in the sense that it leaves invariant a suitably defined``light cone'' in 57 dimensions. This realization, which is related to theFreudenthal triple system associated with the unique exceptional Jordan algebraover the split octonions, contains previous conformal realizations of the lowerrank exceptional Lie groups on generalized space times, and in particular aconformal realization of E_7 on a 27 dimensional vector space which we exhibitexplicitly. Possible applications of our results to supergravity and M-Theoryare briefly mentioned.
Towards cohomology of renormalization: bigrading the combinatorial Hopf  algebra of rooted trees.  The renormalization of quantum field theory twists the antipode of anoncocommutative Hopf algebra of rooted trees, decorated by an infinite set ofprimitive divergences. The Hopf algebra of undecorated rooted trees, ${\calH}_R$, generated by a single primitive divergence, solves a universal problemin Hochschild cohomology. It has two nontrivial closed Hopf subalgebras: thecocommutative subalgebra ${\cal H}_{\rm ladder}$ of pure ladder diagrams andthe Connes-Moscovici noncocommutative subalgebra ${\cal H}_{\rm CM}$ ofnoncommutative geometry. These three Hopf algebras admit a bigrading by $n$,the number of nodes, and an index $k$ that specifies the degree of primitivity.In each case, we use iterations of the relevant coproduct to compute thedimensions of subspaces with modest values of $n$ and $k$ and infer a simplegenerating procedure for the remainder. The results for ${\cal H}_{\rm ladder}$are familiar from the theory of partitions, while those for ${\cal H}_{\rm CM}$involve novel transforms of partitions. Most beautiful is the bigrading of${\cal H}_R$, the largest of the three. Thanks to Sloane's {\tt superseeker},we discovered that it saturates all possible inequalities. We prove this byusing the universal Hochschild-closed one-cocycle $B_+$, which plugs one set ofdivergences into another, and by generalizing the concept of natural growthbeyond that entailed by the Connes-Moscovici case. We emphasize the yet greaterchallenge of handling the infinite set of decorations of realistic quantumfield theory.
Twistor Spaces for QKT Manifolds.  We find that the target space of two-dimensional (4,0) supersymmetric sigmamodels with torsion coupled to (4,0) supergravity is a QKT manifold, that is, aquaternionic K\"ahler manifold with torsion. We give four examples ofgeodesically complete QKT manifolds one of which is a generalisation of theLeBrun geometry. We then construct the twistor space associated with a QKTmanifold and show that under certain conditions it is a K\"ahler manifold witha complex contact structure. We also show that, for every 4k-dimensional QKTmanifold, there is an associated 4(k+1)-dimensional hyper-K\"ahler one.
Master Partitions for Large N Matrix Field Theories.  We introduce a systematic approach for treating the large N limit of matrixfield theories.
Branes and Calibrated Geometries.  The fivebrane worldvolume theory in eleven dimensions is known to contain BPSthreebrane solitons which can also be interpreted as a fivebrane whoseworldvolume is wrapped around a Riemann surface. By considering configurationsof intersecting fivebranes and hence intersecting threebrane solitons, wedetermine the Bogomol'nyi equations for more general BPS configurations. Weobtain differential equations, generalising Cauchy-Riemann equations, whichimply that the worldvolume of the fivebrane is wrapped around a calibratedgeometry.
Spin Chain Models with Spectral Curves from M theory.  We construct the integrable model corresponding to the $\N=2$ supersymmetricSU(N) gauge theory with matter in the antisymmetric representation, using thespectral curve found by Landsteiner and Lopez through M Theory. The model turnsout to be the Hamiltonian reduction of a $N+2$ periodic spin chain model, whichis Hamiltonian with respect to the universal symplectic form we had constructedearlier for general soliton equations in the Lax or Zakharov-Shabatrepresentation.
Twisted N=2 Supersymmetry with Central Charge and Equivariant Cohomology.  We present an equivariant extension of the Thom form with respect to a vectorfield action, in the framework of the Mathai-Quillen formalism. The associatedTopological Quantum Field Theories correspond to twisted $N=2$ supersymmetrictheories with a central charge. We analyze in detail two different cases:topological sigma models and non-abelian monopoles on four-manifolds.
Noncommutative instantons: a new approach.  We discuss instantons on noncommutative four-dimensional Euclidean space. Incommutative case one can consider instantons directly on Euclidean space, thenwe should restrict ourselves to the gauge fields that are gauge equivalent tothe trivial field at infinity. However, technically it is more convenient towork on four-dimensional sphere.  We will show that the situation in noncommutative case is quite similar. Onecan analyze instantons taking as a starting point the algebra of smoothfunctions vanishing at infinity, but it is convenient to add a unit element tothis algebra (this corresponds to a transition to a sphere at the level oftopology). Our approach is more rigorous than previous considerations ; itseems that it is also simpler and more transparent. In particular, we obtainthe ADHM equations in a very simple way.
Vector Bundles And F Theory.  To understand in detail duality between heterotic string and F theorycompactifications, it is important to understand the construction ofholomorphic G bundles over elliptic Calabi-Yau manifolds, for various groups G.In this paper, we develop techniques to describe the bundles, and make severaldetailed comparisons between the heterotic string and F theory.
BPS states of D=4 N=1 supersymmetry.  We find the combinations of momentum and domain-wall charges corresponding toBPS states preserving 1/4, 1/2 or 3/4 of D=4 N=1 supersymmetry, and we show howthe supersymmetry algebra implies their stability. These states form theboundary of the convex cone associated with the Jordan algebra of $4\times 4$real symmetric matrices, and we explore some implications of the associatedgeometry. For the Wess-Zumino model we derive the conditions for preservationof 1/4 supersymmetry when one of two parallel domain-walls is rotated and inaddition show that this model does not admit any classical configurations with3/4 supersymmetry. Our analysis also provides information about BPS states ofN=1 D=4 anti-de Sitter supersymmetry.
On the Classification of Quasihomogeneous Functions.  We give a criterion for the existence of a non-degenerate quasihomogeneouspolynomial in a configuration, i.e. in the space of polynomials with a fixedset of weights, and clarify the relation of this criterion to the necessarycondition derived from the formula for the Poincar\'e polynomial. We furtherprove finiteness of the number of configurations for a given value of thesingularity index. For the value 3 of this index, which is of particularinterest in string theory, a constructive version of this proof implies analgorithm for the calculation of all non-degenerate configurations.
Instantons on noncommutative R^4, and (2,0) superconformal six  dimensional theory.  We show that the resolution of moduli space of ideal instantons parameterizesthe instantons on non-commutative $\IR^{4}$. This moduli space appears as aHiggs branch of the theory of $k$ $D0$-branes bound to $N$ $D4$-branes by theexpectation value of the $B$ field. It also appears as a regularized version ofthe target space of supersymmetric quantum mechanics arising in the light conedescription of $(2,0)$ superconformal theories in six dimensions.
Monopole equations on 8-manifolds with Spin(7) holonomy.  We construct a consistent set of monopole equations on eight-manifolds withSpin(7) holonomy. These equations are elliptic and admit non-trivial solutionsincluding all the 4-dimensional Seiberg-Witten solutions as a special case.
Elliptic Genera of Symmetric Products and Second Quantized Strings.  In this note we prove an identity that equates the elliptic genus partitionfunction of a supersymmetric sigma model on the N-fold symmetric product$M^N/S_N$ of a manifold M to the partition function of a second quantizedstring theory on the space $M \times S^1$. The generating function of theseelliptic genera is shown to be (almost) an automorphic form for O(3,2,Z). Inthe context of D-brane dynamics, this result gives a precise computation of thefree energy of a gas of D-strings inside a higher-dimensional brane.
On Classification of N=2 Supersymmetric Theories, (e-mail uncorrupted  version).  We find a relation between the spectrum of solitons of massive $N=2$ quantumfield theories in $d=2$ and the scaling dimensions of chiral fields at theconformal point. The condition that the scaling dimensions be real imposesrestrictions on the soliton numbers and leads to a classification program forsymmetric $N=2$ conformal theories and their massive deformations in terms of asuitable generalization of Dynkin diagrams (which coincides with the A--D--EDynkin diagrams for minimal models). The Landau-Ginzburg theories are a propersubset of this classification. In the particular case of LG theories we relatethe soliton numbers with intersection of vanishing cycles of the correspondingsingularity; the relation between soliton numbers and the scaling dimensions inthis particular case is a well known application of Picard-Lefschetz theory.
Conformal blocks on elliptic curves and the  Knizhnik--Zamolodchikov--Bernard equations.  We give an explicit description of the vector bundle of WZW conformal blockson elliptic curves with marked points as subbundle of a vector bundle of Weylgroup invariant vector valued theta functions on a Cartan subalgebra. We give apartly conjectural characterization of this subbundle in terms of certainvanishing conditions on affine hyperplanes. In some cases, explicit calculationare possible and confirm the conjecture. The Friedan--Shenker flat connectionis calculated, and it is shown that horizontal sections are solutions ofBernard's generalization of the Knizhnik--Zamolodchikov equation.
Normal Coordinates and Primitive Elements in the Hopf Algebra of  Renormalization.  We introduce normal coordinates on the infinite dimensional group $G$introduced by Connes and Kreimer in their analysis of the Hopf algebra ofrooted trees. We study the primitive elements of the algebra and show that theyare generated by a simple application of the inverse Poincar\'e lemma, given aclosed left invariant 1-form on $G$. For the special case of the ladderprimitives, we find a second description that relates them to the Hopf algebraof functionals on power series with the usual product. Either approach showsthat the ladder primitives are given by the Schur polynomials. The relevance ofthe lower central series of the dual Lie algebra in the process ofrenormalization is also discussed, leading to a natural concept of$k$-primitiveness, which is shown to be equivalent to the one already in theliterature.
Holonomy groups and W-symmetries.  Irreducible sigma models, i.e. those for which the partition function doesnot factorise, are defined on Riemannian spaces with irreducible holonomygroups. These special geometries are characterised by the existence ofcovariantly constant forms which in turn give rise to symmetries of thesupersymmetric sigma model actions. The Poisson bracket algebra of thecorresponding currents is a W-algebra. Extended supersymmetries arise asspecial cases.
Eisenstein Series and String Thresholds.  We investigate the relevance of Eisenstein series for representing certain$G(Z)$-invariant string theory amplitudes which receive corrections from BPSstates only. $G(Z)$ may stand for any of the mapping class, T-duality andU-duality groups $Sl(d,Z)$, $SO(d,d,Z)$ or $E_{d+1(d+1)}(Z)$ respectively.Using $G(Z)$-invariant mass formulae, we construct invariant modular functionson the symmetric space $K\backslash G(R)$ of non-compact type, with $K$ themaximal compact subgroup of $G(R)$, that generalize the standardnon-holomorphic Eisenstein series arising in harmonic analysis on thefundamental domain of the Poincar\'e upper half-plane. Comparing theasymptotics and eigenvalues of the Eisenstein series under second orderdifferential operators with quantities arising in one- and $g$-loop stringamplitudes, we obtain a manifestly T-duality invariant representation of thelatter, conjecture their non-perturbative U-duality invariant extension, andanalyze the resulting non-perturbative effects. This includes the $R^4$ and$R^4 H^{4g-4}$ couplings in toroidal compactifications of M-theory to anydimension $D\geq 4$ and $D\geq 6$ respectively.
Chiral forms and their deformations.  We systematically study deformations of chiral forms with applications tostring theory in mind. To first order in the coupling constant, this problemcan be translated into the calculation of the local BRST cohomological group atghost number zero. We completely solve this cohomology and present detailedproofs of results announced in a previous letter. In particular, we show thatthere is no room for non-abelian, local, deformations of a pure system ofchiral p-forms.
Unitarity of the Knizhnik-Zamolodchikov-Bernard connection and the Bethe  Ansatz for the elliptic Hitchin systems.  We work out finite-dimensional integral formulae for the scalar product ofgenus one states of the group $G$ Chern-Simons theory with insertions of Wilsonlines. Assuming convergence of the integrals, we show that unitarity of theelliptic Knizhnik-Zamolodchikov-Bernard connection with respect to the scalarproduct of CS states is closely related to the Bethe Ansatz for the commutingHamiltonians building up the connection and quantizing the quadraticHamiltonians of the elliptic Hitchin system.
Special Kahler Manifolds.  We give an intrinsic definition of the special geometry which arises inglobal N=2 supersymmetry in four dimensions. The base of an algebraicintegrable system exhibits this geometry, and with an integrality hypothesisany special Kahler manifold is so related to an integrable system. Thecotangent bundle of a special Kahler manifold carries a hyperkahler metric. Wealso define special geometry in supergravity in terms of the special geometryin global supersymmetry.
Hilbert Schemes, Separated Variables, and D-Branes.  We explain Sklyanin's separation of variables in geometrical terms andconstruct it for Hitchin and Mukai integrable systems. We construct Hilbertschemes of points on $T^{*}\Sigma$ for $\Sigma = {\IC}, {\IC}^{*}$ or ellipticcurve, and on ${\bf C}^{2}/{\Gamma}$ and show that their complex deformationsare integrable systems of Calogero-Sutherland-Moser type. We present thehyperk\"ahler quotient constructions for Hilbert schemes of points on cotangentbundles to the higher genus curves, utilizing the results of Hurtubise,Kronheimer and Nakajima. Finally we discuss the connections to physics of$D$-branes and string duality.
Braided Quantum Field Theory.  We develop a general framework for quantum field theory on noncommutativespaces, i.e., spaces with quantum group symmetry. We use the path integralapproach to obtain expressions for $n$-point functions. Perturbation theoryleads us to generalised Feynman diagrams which are braided, i.e., they havenon-trivial over- and under-crossings. We demonstrate the power of our approachby applying it to $\phi^4$-theory on the quantum 2-sphere. We find that thebasic divergent diagram of the theory is regularised.
On the algebras of BPS states.  We define an algebra on the space of BPS states in theories with extendedsupersymmetry. We show that the algebra of perturbative BPS states in toroidalcompactification of the heterotic string is closely related to a generalizedKac-Moody algebra. We use D-brane theory to compare the formulation ofRR-charged BPS algebras in type II compactification with the requirements ofstring/string duality and find that the RR charged BPS states should beregarded as cohomology classes on moduli spaces of coherent sheaves. Theequivalence of the algebra of BPS states in heterotic/IIA dual pairs elucidatescertain results and conjectures of Nakajima and Gritsenko & Nikulin, ongeometrically defined algebras and furthermore suggests nontrivialgeneralizations of these algebras. In particular, to any Calabi-Yau 3-foldthere are two canonically associated algebras exchanged by mirror symmetry.
Calabi-Yau black holes and (0,4) sigma models.  When an M-theory fivebrane wraps a holomorphic surface $\CP$ in a Calabi-Yau3-fold $X$ the low energy dynamics is that of a black string in 5 dimensional$\CN=1$ supergravity. The infrared dynamics on the string worldsheet is an $\CN= (0,4)$ 2D conformal field theory. Assuming the 2D CFT can be described as anonlinear sigma model, we describe the target space geometry of this model interms of the data of $X$ and $\CP$. Variations of weight two Hodge structuresenter the construction of the model in an interesting way.
On $E_{10}$ and the DDF construction.  An attempt is made to understand the root spaces of Kac Moody algebras ofhyperbolic type, and in particular $E_{10}$, in terms of a DDF constructionappropriate to a subcritical compactified bosonic string. While the level-oneroot spaces can be completely characterized in terms of transversal DDF states(the level-zero elements just span the affine subalgebra), longitudinal DDFstates are shown to appear beyond level one. In contrast to previous treatmentsof such algebras, we find it necessary to make use of a rational extension ofthe self-dual root lattice as an auxiliary device, and to admit non-summableoperators (in the sense of the vertex algebra formalism). We demonstrate theutility of the method by completely analyzing a non-trivial level-two rootspace, obtaining an explicit and comparatively simple representation for it. Wealso emphasize the occurrence of several Virasoro algebras, whose interrelationis expected to be crucial for a better understanding of the complete structureof the Kac Moody algebra.
Complex Matrix Models and Statistics of Branched Coverings of 2D  Surfaces.  We present a complex matrix gauge model defined on an arbitrarytwo-dimensional orientable lattice. We rewrite the model's partition functionin terms of a sum over representations of the group U(N). The model solves thegeneral combinatorial problem of counting branched covers of orientable Riemannsurfaces with any given, fixed branch point structure. We then define anappropriate continuum limit allowing the branch points to freely float over thesurface. The simplest such limit reproduces two-dimensional chiral U(N)Yang-Mills theory and its string description due to Gross and Taylor.
Monstrous branes.  We study D-branes in the bosonic closed string theory whose automorphismgroup is the Bimonster group (the wreath product of the Monster simple groupwith Z_2). We give a complete classification of D-branes preserving the chiralsubalgebra of Monster invariants and show that they transform in arepresentation of the Bimonster. Our results apply more generally to self-dualconformal field theories which admit the action of a compact Lie group on boththe left- and right-moving sectors.
Local BRST cohomology and covariance.  The paper provides a framework for a systematic analysis of the local BRSTcohomology in a large class of gauge theories. The approach is based on thecohomology of s+d in the jet space of fields and antifields, s and d being theBRST operator and exterior derivative respectively. It relates the BRSTcohomology to an underlying gauge covariant algebra and reduces its computationto a compactly formulated problem involving only suitably defined generalizedconnections and tensor fields. The latter are shown to provide the buildingblocks of physically relevant quantities such as gauge invariant actions,Noether currents and gauge anomalies, as well as of the equations of motion.
The Spectral Action Principle.  We propose a new action principle to be associated with a noncommutativespace $(\Ac ,\Hc ,D)$. The universal formula for the spectral action is $(\psi,D\psi) + \Trace (\chi (D /$ $\Lb))$ where $\psi$ is a spinor on the Hilbertspace, $\Lb$ is a scale and $\chi$ a positive function. When this principle isapplied to the noncommutative space defined by the spectrum of the standardmodel one obtains the standard model action coupled to Einstein plus Weylgravity. There are relations between the gauge coupling constants identical tothose of $SU(5)$ as well as the Higgs self-coupling, to be taken at a fixedhigh energy scale.
Supersymmetric quantum theory and (non-commutative) differential  geometry.  We reconsider differential geometry from the point of view of the quantumtheory of non-relativistic spinning particles, which provides examples ofsupersymmetric quantum mechanics. This enables us to encode geometricalstructure in algebraic data consisting of an algebra of functions on a manifoldand a family of supersymmetry generators represented on a Hilbert space. Weshow that known types of differential geometry can be classified in terms ofthe supersymmetries they exhibit. Replacing commutative algebras of functionsby non-commutative *-algebras of operators, while retaining supersymmetry, wearrive at a formulation of non-commutative geometry encompassing and extendingConnes' original approach. We explore different types of non-commutativegeometry and introduce notions of non-commutative manifolds and non-commutativephase spaces. One of the main motivations underlying our work is to constructmathematical tools for novel formulations of quantum gravity, in particular forthe investigation of superstring vacua.
Mirror Symmetry, Mirror Map and Applications to Calabi-Yau Hypersurfaces.  Mirror Symmetry, Picard-Fuchs equations and instanton corrected Yukawacouplings are discussed within the framework of toric geometry. It allows toestablish mirror symmetry of Calabi-Yau spaces for which the mirror manifoldhad been unavailable in previous constructions. Mirror maps and Yukawacouplings are explicitly given for several examples with two and three moduli.
Multidimensional extension of the generalized Chowla-Selberg formula.  After recalling the precise existence conditions of the zeta function of apseudodifferential operator, and the concept of reflection formula, anexponentially convergent expression for the analytic continuation of amultidimensional inhomogeneous Epstein-type zeta function of the general forma $p$ vector and $q$ a constant, is obtained. It is valid on the whole complex$s$-plane, is exponentially convergent and provides the residua at the polesexplicitly. It reduces to the famous formula of Chowla and Selberg in theparticular case $p=2$, $\vec{b}= \vec{0}$, $q=0$. Some variations of theformula and physical applications are considered.
The Geometry of (Super) Conformal Quantum Mechanics.  N-particle quantum mechanics described by a sigma model with an N-dimensionaltarget space with torsion is considered. It is shown that an SL(2,R) conformalsymmetry exists if and only if the geometry admits a homothetic Killing vector$D^a$ whose associated one-form $D_a$ is closed. Further, the SL(2,R) canalways be extended to Osp(1|2) superconformal symmetry, with a suitable choiceof torsion, by the addition of N real fermions. Extension to SU(1,1|1) requiresa complex structure I and a holomorphic U(1) isometry $D^a I_a{^b} \partial_b$.Conditions for extension to the superconformal group D(2,1;\alpha), whichinvolve a triplet of complex structures and SU(2) x SU(2) isometries, arederived. Examples are given.
Renormalization in quantum field theory and the Riemann-Hilbert problem  II: the $\beta$-function, diffeomorphisms and the renormalization group.  We showed in part I (hep-th/9912092) that the Hopf algebra ${\cal H}$ ofFeynman graphs in a given QFT is the algebra of coordinates on a complexinfinite dimensional Lie group $G$ and that the renormalized theory is obtainedfrom the unrenormalized one by evaluating at $\ve=0$ the holomorphic part$\gamma_+(\ve)$ of the Riemann-Hilbert decomposition$\gamma_-(\ve)^{-1}\gamma_+(\ve)$ of the loop $\gamma(\ve)\in G$ provided bydimensional regularization. We show in this paper that the group $G$ actsnaturally on the complex space $X$ of dimensionless coupling constants of thetheory. More precisely, the formula $g_0=gZ_1Z_3^{-3/2}$ for the effectivecoupling constant, when viewed as a formal power series, does define a Hopfalgebra homomorphism between the Hopf algebra of coordinates on the group offormal diffeomorphisms to the Hopf algebra ${\cal H}$. This allows first of allto read off directly, without using the group $G$, the bare coupling constantand the renormalized one from the Riemann-Hilbert decomposition of theunrenormalized effective coupling constant viewed as a loop of formaldiffeomorphisms. This shows that renormalization is intimately related with thetheory of non-linear complex bundles on the Riemann sphere of the dimensionalregularization parameter $\ve$. It also allows to lift both the renormalizationgroup and the $\beta$-function as the asymptotic scaling in the group $G$. Thisexploits the full power of the Riemann-Hilbert decomposition together with theinvariance of $\gamma_-(\ve)$ under a change of unit of mass. This not onlygives a conceptual proof of the existence of the renormalization group but alsodelivers a scattering formula in the group $G$ for the full higher polestructure of minimal subtracted counterterms in terms of the residue.
Nahm Transform For Periodic Monopoles And N=2 Super Yang-Mills Theory.  We study Bogomolny equations on $R^2\times S^1$. Although they do not admitnontrivial finite-energy solutions, we show that there are interestinginfinite-energy solutions with Higgs field growing logarithmically at infinity.We call these solutions periodic monopoles. Using Nahm transform, we show thatperiodic monopoles are in one-to-one correspondence with solutions of Hitchinequations on a cylinder with Higgs field growing exponentially at infinity. Themoduli spaces of periodic monopoles belong to a novel class of hyperk\"ahlermanifolds and have applications to quantum gauge theory and string theory. Forexample, we show that the moduli space of $k$ periodic monopoles provides theexact solution of ${\cal N}=2$ super Yang-Mills theory with gauge group $SU(k)$compactified on a circle of arbitrary radius.
Gravity coupled with matter and foundation of non-commutative geometry.  We first exhibit in the commutative case the simple algebraic relationsbetween the algebra of functions on a manifold and its infinitesimal lengthelement $ds$. Its unitary representations correspond to Riemannian metrics andSpin structure while $ds$ is the Dirac propagator $ds = \ts \!\!$---$\!\! \ts =D^{-1}$ where $D$ is the Dirac operator. We extend these simple relations tothe non commutative case using Tomita's involution $J$. We then write aspectral action, the trace of a function of the length element in Planck units,which when applied to the non commutative geometry of the Standard Model willbe shown (in a joint work with Ali Chamseddine) to give the SM Lagrangiancoupled to gravity. The internal fluctuations of the non commutative geometryare trivial in the commutative case but yield the full bosonic sector of SMwith all correct quantum numbers in the slightly non commutative case. Thegroup of local gauge transformations appears spontaneously as a normal subgroupof the diffeomorphism group.
From Large N Matrices to the Noncommutative Torus.  We describe how and to what extent the noncommutative two-torus can beapproximated by a tower of finite-dimensional matrix geometries. Theapproximation is carried out for both irrational and rational deformationparameters by embedding the algebra of the noncommutative torus into anapproximately finite algebra. The construction is a rigorous derivation of therecent discretizations of noncommutative gauge theories using finitedimensional matrix models, and it shows precisely how the continuum limits ofthese models must be taken. We clarify various aspects of Morita equivalenceusing this formalism and describe some applications to noncommutativeYang-Mills theory.
Exact absorption probabilities for the D3-brane.  We consider a minimal scalar in the presence of a three-brane in tendimensions. The linearized equation of motion, which is just the wave equationin the three-brane metric, can be solved in terms of associated Mathieufunctions. An exact expression for the reflection and absorption probabilitiescan be obtained in terms of the characteristic exponent of Mathieu's equation.We describe an algorithm for obtaining the low-energy behavior as a seriesexpansion, and discuss the implications for the world-volume theory ofD3-branes.
Local BRST cohomology in the antifield formalism: II. Application to  Yang-Mills theory.  Yang-Mills models with compact gauge group coupled to matter fields areconsidered. The general tools developed in a companion paper are applied tocompute the local cohomology of the BRST differential $s$ modulo the exteriorspacetime derivative $d$ for all values of the ghost number, in the space ofpolynomials in the fields, the ghosts, the antifields (=sources for the BRSTvariations) and their derivatives. New solutions to the consistency conditions$sa+db=0$ depending non trivially on the antifields are exhibited. For asemi-simple gauge group, however, these new solutions arise only at ghostnumber two or higher. Thus at ghost number zero or one, the inclusion of theantifields does not bring in new solutions to the consistency condition$sa+db=0$ besides the already known ones. The analysis does not use powercounting and is purely cohomological. It can be easily extended to more generalactions containing higher derivatives of the curvature, or Chern-Simons terms.
On Overlapping Divergences.  Using set-theoretic considerations, we show that the forest formula foroverlapping divergences comes from the Hopf algebra of rooted trees.
D-Brane Bound States Redux.  We study the existence of D-brane bound states at threshold in Type II stringtheories. In a number of situations, we can reduce the question of existence toquadrature, and the study of a particular limit of the propagator for thesystem of D-branes. This involves a derivation of an index theorem for a familyof non-Fredholm operators. In support of the conjectured relation betweencompactified eleven-dimensional supergravity and Type IIA string theory, weshow that a bound state exists for two coincident zero-branes. This result alsoprovides support for the conjectured description of M-theory as a matrix model.In addition, we provide further evidence that there are no BPS bound states fortwo and three-branes twice wrapped on Calabi-Yau vanishing cycles.
Missing Modules, the Gnome Lie Algebra, and $E_{10}$.  We study the embedding of Kac-Moody algebras into Borcherds (or generalizedKac-Moody) algebras which can be explicitly realized as Lie algebras ofphysical states of some completely compactified bosonic string. The extra``missing states'' can be decomposed into irreducible highest or lowest weight``missing modules'' w.r.t. the relevant Kac-Moody subalgebra; thecorresponding lowest weights are associated with imaginary simple roots whosemultiplicities can be simply understood in terms of certain polarization statesof the associated string. We analyse in detail two examples where the momentumlattice of the string is given by the unique even unimodular Lorentzian lattice$II_{1,1}$ or $II_{9,1}$, respectively. The former leads to the Borcherdsalgebra $g_{1,1}$, which we call ``gnome Lie algebra", with maximal Kac-Moodysubalgebra $A_1$. By the use of the denominator formula a complete set ofimaginary simple roots can be exhibited, whereas the DDF construction providesan explicit Lie algebra basis in terms of purely longitudinal states of thecompactified string in two dimensions. The second example is the Borcherdsalgebra $g_{9,1}$, whose maximal Kac-Moody subalgebra is the hyperbolicalgebra $E_{10}$. The imaginary simple roots at level 1, which give rise toirreducible lowest weight modules for $E_{10}$, can be completelycharacterized; furthermore, our explicit analysis of two non-trivial level-2root spaces leads us to conjecture that these are in fact the only imaginarysimple roots for $g_{9,1}$.
The formulae of Kontsevich and Verlinde from the perspective of the  Drinfeld double.  A two dimensional gauge theory is canonically associated to every Drinfelddouble. For particular doubles, the theory turns out to be e.g. the ordinaryYang-Mills theory, the G/G gauged WZNW model or the Poisson $\sigma$-model thatunderlies the Kontsevich quantization formula. We calculate the arbitrary genuspartition function of the latter. The result is the $q$-deformation of theordinary Yang-Mills partition function in the sense that the series over theweights is replaced by the same series over the $q$-weights. For $q$ equal to aroot of unity the series acquires the affine Weyl symmetry and its truncationto the alcove coincides with the Verlinde formula.
Gromov-Witten classes, quantum cohomology, and enumerative geometry.  The paper is devoted to the mathematical aspects of topological quantum fieldtheory and its applications to enumerative problems of algebraic geometry. Inparticular, it contains an axiomatic treatment of Gromov-Witten classes, and adiscussion of their properties for Fano varieties. Cohomological Field Theoriesare defined, and it is proved that tree level theories are determined by theircorrelation functions. Applications to counting rational curves on del Pezzosurfaces and projective spaces are given.
Superconformal invariance and the geography of four-manifolds.  The correlation functions of supersymmetric gauge theories on a four-manifoldX can sometimes be expressed in terms of topological invariants of X. We showhow the existence of superconformal fixed points in the gauge theory canprovide nontrivial information about four-manifold topology. In particular, inthe example of gauge group SU(2) with one doublet hypermultiplet, we derive atheorem relating classical topological invariants such as the Euler characterand signature to sum rules for Seiberg-Witten invariants.
On the Classification of Reflexive Polyhedra.  Reflexive polyhedra encode the combinatorial data for mirror pairs ofCalabi-Yau hypersurfaces in toric varieties. We investigate the geometricalstructures of circumscribed polytopes with a minimal number of facets and ofinscribed polytopes with a minimal number of vertices. These objects, whichconstrain reflexive pairs of polyhedra from the interior and the exterior, canbe described in terms of certain non-negative integral matrices. A major toolin the classification of these matrices is the existence of a pair of weightsystems, indicating a relation to weighted projective spaces. This is thecorner stone for an algorithm for the construction of all dual pairs ofreflexive polyhedra that we expect to be efficient enough for an enumerativeclassification in up to 4 dimensions, which is the relevant case for Calabi-Yaucompactifications in string theory.
Minimal representations, spherical vectors, and exceptional theta series  I.  Theta series for exceptional groups have been suggested as a possibledescription of the eleven-dimensional quantum supermembrane. We presentexplicit formulae for these automorphic forms whenever the underlying Lie group$G$ is split (or complex) and simply laced. Specifically, we review andconstruct explicitly the minimal representation of $G$, generalizing theSchr\"odinger representation of symplectic groups. We compute the sphericalvector in this representation, i.e. the wave function invariant under themaximal compact subgroup, which plays the role of the summand in theautomorphic theta series. We also determine the spherical vector over thecomplex field. We outline how the spherical vector over the $p$-adic numberfields provides the summation measure in the theta series, postponing itsdetermination to a sequel of this work. The simplicity of our result issuggestive of a new Born-Infeld-like description of the membrane whereU-duality is realized non-linearly. Our results may also be used inconstructing quantum mechanical systems with spectrum generating symmetries.
A nonperturbative regularization of the supersymmetric Schwinger model.  It is shown that noncommutative geometry is a nonperturbative regulator whichcan manifestly preserve a space supersymmetry and a supergauge symmetry whilekeeping only a finite number of degrees of freedom in a theory. The simplestN=1 case of an U(1) supergauge theory on the sphere is worked out in detail.
Target Space Duality between Simple Compact Lie Groups and Lie Algebras  under the Hamiltonian Formalism: I. Remnants of Duality at the Classical  Level.  It has been suggested that a possible classical remnant of the phenomenon oftarget-space duality (T-duality) would be the equivalence of the classicalstring Hamiltonian systems. Given a simple compact Lie group $G$ with abi-invariant metric and a generating function $\Gamma$ suggested in the physicsliterature, we follow the above line of thought and work out the canonicaltransformation $\Phi$ generated by $\Gamma$ together with an $\Ad$-invariantmetric and a B-field on the associated Lie algebra $\frak g$ of $G$ so that $G$and $\frak g$ form a string target-space dual pair at the classical level underthe Hamiltonian formalism. In this article, some general features of thisHamiltonian setting are discussed. We study properties of the canonicaltransformation $\Phi$ including a careful analysis of its domain and image. Thegeometry of the T-dual structure on $\frak g$ is lightly touched.
A Stress Tensor for Anti-de Sitter Gravity.  We propose a procedure for computing the boundary stress tensor associatedwith a gravitating system in asymptotically anti-de Sitter space. Ourdefinition is free of ambiguities encountered by previous attempts, andcorrectly reproduces the masses and angular momenta of various spacetimes. Viathe AdS/CFT correspondence, our classical result is interpretable as theexpectation value of the stress tensor in a quantum conformal field theory. Wedemonstrate that the conformal anomalies in two and four dimensions arerecovered. The two dimensional stress tensor transforms with a Schwarzianderivative and the expected central charge. We also find a nonzero ground stateenergy for global AdS_5, and show that it exactly matches the Casimir energy ofthe dual N=4 super Yang-Mills theory on S^3 x R.
On Finite 4D Quantum Field Theory in Non-Commutative Geometry.  The truncated 4-dimensional sphere $S^4$ and the action of theself-interacting scalar field on it are constructed. The path integralquantization is performed while simultaneously keeping the SO(5) symmetry andthe finite number of degrees of freedom. The usual field theory UV-divergencesare manifestly absent.
Towards a General Theory of Quantized Fields on the Anti-de Sitter  Space-Time.  We propose a general framework for studying quantum field theory on theanti-de-Sitter space-time, based on the assumption of positivity of thespectrum of the possible energy operators. In this framework we show that then-point functions are analytic in suitable domains of the complex AdS manifold,that it is possible to Wick rotate to the Euclidean manifold and come back, andthat it is meaningful to restrict AdS quantum fields to Poincare' branes. Wegive also a complete characterization of two-point functions which are thesimplest example of our theory. Finally we prove the existence of the AdS-Unruheffect for uniformly accelerated observers on trajectories crossing theboundary of AdS at infinity, while that effect does not exist for all the otheruniformly accelerated trajectories.
On noncommutative Nahm transform.  Motivated by the recently observed relation between the physics of $D$-branesin the background of $B$-field and the noncommutative geometry we study theanalogue of Nahm transform for the instantons on the noncommutative torus.
Symplectic structures associated to Lie-Poisson groups.  The Lie-Poisson analogues of the cotangent bundle and coadjoint orbits of aLie group are considered. For the natural Poisson brackets the symplecticleaves in these manifolds are classified and the corresponding symplectic formsare described. Thus the construction of the Kirillov symplectic form isgeneralized for Lie-Poisson groups.
Central extensions of current groups in two dimensions.  In this paper we generalize some of these results for loop algebras andgroups as well as for the Virasoro algebra to the two-dimensional case. Wedefine and study a class of infinite dimensional complex Lie groups which arecentral extensions of the group of smooth maps from a two dimensionalorientable surface without boundary to a simple complex Lie group G. Theseextensions naturally correspond to complex curves. The kernel of such anextension is the Jacobian of the curve. The study of the coadjoint action showsthat its orbits are labelled by moduli of holomorphic principal G-bundles overthe curve and can be described in the language of partial differentialequations. In genus one it is also possible to describe the orbits as conjugacyclasses of the twisted loop group, which leads to consideration of differenceequations for holomorphic functions. This gives rise to a hope that thedescribed groups should possess a counterpart of the rich representation theorythat has been developed for loop groups. We also define a two-dimensionalanalogue of the Virasoro algebra associated with a complex curve. In genus one,a study of a complex analogue of Hill's operator yields a description ofinvariants of the coadjoint action of this Lie algebra. The answer turns out tobe the same as in dimension one: the invariants coincide with those for theextended algebra of currents in sl(2).
Calibrations and Intersecting Branes.  We investigate the solutions of Nambu-Goto-type actions associated withcalibrations. We determine the supersymmetry preserved by these solutions usingthe contact set of the calibration and examine their bulk interpretation asintersecting branes. We show that the supersymmetry preserved by such solutionsis closely related to the spinor singlets of the subgroup $G$ of $Spin (9,1)$or $Spin (10,1)$ that rotates the tangent spaces of the brane. We find that thesupersymmetry projections of the worldvolume solutions are precisely those ofthe associated bulk configurations. We also investigate the supersymmetricsolutions of a Born-Infeld action. We show that in some cases this problem alsoreduces to counting spinor singlets of a subgroup of $Spin (9,1)$ acting on theassociated spinor representations. We also find new worldvolume solutions whichpreserve 1/8 of the supersymmetry of the bulk and give their bulkinterpretation.
D-particle bound states and generalized instantons.  We compute the principal contribution to the index in the supersymmetricquantum mechanical systems which are obtained by reduction to 0+1 dimensions of$\CN=1$, $D=4,6,10$ super-Yang-Mills theories with gauge group SU(N). Theresults are: ${1\over{N^{2}}}$ for $D=4,6$, $\sum_{d | N} {1\over{d^{2}}}$ forD=10. We also discuss the D=3 case.
String Geometry and the Noncommutative Torus.  We construct a new gauge theory on a pair of d-dimensional noncommutativetori. The latter comes from an intimate relationship between the noncommutativegeometry associated with a lattice vertex operator algebra A and thenoncommutative torus. We show that the (truncated) tachyon subalgebra of A isnaturally isomorphic to a class of twisted modules representing quantumdeformations of the algebra of functions on the torus. We construct thecorresponding even real spectral triples and determine their Morita equivalenceclasses using string duality arguments. These constructions yield simple proofsof the O(d,d;Z) Morita equivalences between $d$-dimensional noncommutative toriand give a natural physical interpretation of them in terms of the target spaceduality group of toroidally compactified string theory. We classify theautomorphisms of the twisted modules and construct the most general gaugetheory which is invariant under the automorphism group. We compute bosonic andfermionic actions associated with these gauge theories and show that they areexplicitly duality-symmetric. The duality-invariant gauge theory is manifestlycovariant but contains highly non-local interactions. We show that it alsoadmits a new sort of particle-antiparticle duality which enables theconstruction of instanton field configurations in any dimension. The dualitynon-symmetric on-shell projection of the field theory is shown to coincide withthe standard non-abelian Yang-Mills gauge theory minimally coupled to massiveDirac fermion fields.
The Donaldson-Witten function for gauge groups of rank larger than one.  We study correlation functions in topologically twisted $\CN=2, d=4$supersymmetric Yang-Mills theory for gauge groups of rank larger than one oncompact four-manifolds $X$. We find that the topological invariance of thegenerator of correlation functions of BRST invariant observables is not spoiledby noncompactness of field space. We show how to express the correlators onsimply connected manifolds of $b_{2,+}(X)>0$ in terms of Seiberg-Witteninvariants and the classical cohomology ring of $X$. For manifolds $X$ ofsimple type and gauge group SU(N) we give explicit expressions of thecorrelators as a sum over $\CN=1$ vacua. We describe two applications of ourexpressions, one to superconformal field theory and one to large $N$ expansionsof SU(N) $\CN=2, d=4$ supersymmetric Yang-Mills theory.
A Hiker's Guide to K3 - Aspects of N=(4,4) Superconformal Field Theory  with central charge c=6.  We study the moduli space ${\cal M}$ of N=(4,4) superconformal field theorieswith central charge c=6. After a slight emendation of its global description wefind the locations of various known models in the component of ${\cal M}$associated to K3 surfaces. Among them are the Z_2 and Z_4 orbifold theoriesobtained from the torus component of ${\cal M}$. Here, SO(4,4) triality isfound to play a dominant role. We obtain the B-field values in direction of theexceptional divisors which arise from orbifolding. We prove T-duality for theZ_2 orbifolds and use it to derive the form of ${\cal M}$ purely withinconformal field theory. For the Gepner model (2)^4 and some of its orbifolds wefind the locations in ${\cal M}$ and prove isomorphisms to nonlinear sigmamodels. In particular we prove that the Gepner model (2)^4 has a geometricinterpretation with Fermat quartic target space.
Gravity in Non-Commutative Geometry.  We study general relativity in the framework of non-commutative differentialgeometry. In particular, we introduce a gravity action for a space-time whichis the product of a four dimensional manifold by a two-point space. In thesimplest situation, where the Riemannian metric is taken to be the same on thetwo copies of the manifold, one obtains a model of a scalar field coupled toEinstein gravity. This field is geometrically interpreted as describing thedistance between the two points in the internal space.
On Diagonalization in Map(M,G).  Motivated by some questions in the path integral approach to (topological)gauge theories, we are led to address the following question: given a smoothmap from a manifold $M$ to a compact group $G$, is it possible to smoothly`diagonalize' it, i.e.~conjugate it into a map to a maximal torus $T$ of $G$?We analyze the local and global obstructions and give a complete solution tothe problem for regular maps. We establish that these can always be smoothlydiagonalized locally and that the obstructions to doing this globally arenon-trivial Weyl group and torus bundles on $M$. We show how the patching oflocal diagonalizing maps gives rise to non-trivial $T$-bundles, explain therelation to winding numbers of maps into $G/T$ and restrictions of thestructure group and examine the behaviour of gauge fields under thisdiagonalization. We also discuss the complications that arise for non-regularmaps and in the presence of non-trivial $G$-bundles. In particular, weestablish a relation between the existence of regular sections of a non-trivialadjoint bundle and restrictions of the structure group of a principal$G$-bundle to $T$. We use these results to justify a Weyl integral formula forfunctional integrals which, as a novel feature not seen in thefinite-dimensional case, contains a summation over all those topological$T$-sectors which arise as restrictions of a trivial principal $G$ bundle andwhich was used previously to solve completely Yang-Mills theory and the $G/G$model in two dimensions.
Character Expansion Methods for Matrix Models of Dually Weighted Graphs.We consider generalized one-matrix models in which external fields allowcontrol over the coordination numbers on both the original and dual lattices.We rederive in a simple fashion a character expansion formula for these modelsoriginally due to Itzykson and Di Francesco, and then demonstrate how to takethe large N limit of this expansion. The relationship to the usual matrix modelresolvent is elucidated. Our methods give as a by-product an extremely simplederivation of the Migdal integral equation describing the large $N$ limit ofthe Itzykson-Zuber formula. We illustrate and check our methods by analyzing anumber of models solvable by traditional means. We then proceed to solve a newmodel: a sum over planar graphs possessing even coordination numbers on boththe original and the dual lattice. We conclude by formulating equations for thecase of arbitrary sets of even, self-dual coupling constants. This opens theway for studying the deep problem of phase transitions from random to flatlattices.
Arithmetic Properties of Mirror Map and Quantum Coupling.  We study some arithmetic properties of the mirror maps and the quantum Yukawacoupling for some 1-parameter deformations of Calabi-Yau manifolds. First weuse the Schwarzian differential equation, which we derived previously, tocharacterize the mirror map in each case. For algebraic K3 surfaces, we solvethe equation in terms of the $J$-function. By deriving explicit modularrelations we prove that some K3 mirror maps are algebraic over the genus zerofunction field ${\bf Q}(J)$. This leads to a uniform proof that those mirrormaps have integral Fourier coefficients. Regarding the maps as Riemannmappings, we prove that they are genus zero functions. By virtue of theConway-Norton conjecture (proved by Borcherds using Frenkel-Lepowsky-Meurman'sMoonshine module), we find that these maps are actually the reciprocals of theThompson series for certain conjugacy classes in the Griess-Fischer group. Thisalso gives, as an immediate consequence, a second proof that those mirror mapsare integral. We thus conjecture a surprising connection between K3 mirror mapsand the Thompson series. For threefolds, we construct a formal nonlinear ODEfor the quantum coupling reduced $mod\ p$. Under the mirror hypothesis and anintegrality assumption, we derive $mod~p$ congruences for the Fouriercoefficients. For the quintics, we deduce (at least for $5\not{|}d$) that thedegree $d$ instanton numbers $n_d$ are divisible by $5^3$ -- a fact firstconjectured by Clemens.
On the Sutherland Spin Model of B_N Type and its Associated Spin Chain.  The B_N hyperbolic Sutherland spin model is expressed in terms of a suitableset of commuting Dunkl operators. This fact is exploited to derive a completefamily of commuting integrals of motion of the model, thus establishing itsintegrability. The Dunkl operators are shown to possess a common flag ofinvariant finite-dimensional linear spaces of smooth scalar functions. Thisimplies that the Hamiltonian of the model preserves a corresponding flag ofsmooth spin functions. The discrete spectrum of the restriction of theHamiltonian to this spin flag is explicitly computed by triangularization. Theintegrability of the hyperbolic Sutherland spin chain of B_N type associatedwith the dynamical model is proved using Polychronakos's "freezing trick".
Integrating Over Higgs Branches.  We develop some useful techinques for integrating over Higgs branches insupersymmetric theories with 4 and 8 supercharges. In particular, we define aregularized volume for hyperkahler quotients. We evaluate this volume forcertain ALE and ALF spaces in terms of the hyperkahler periods. We also reducethese volumes for a large class of hyperkahler quotients to simpler integrals.These quotients include complex coadjoint orbits, instanton moduli spaces on$\IR^{4}$ and ALE manifolds, Hitchin spaces, and moduli spaces of parabolicHiggs bundles on Riemann surfaces. In the case of Hitchin spaces the evaluationof the volume reduces to a summation over solutions of Bethe Ansatz equationsfor the non-linear Schr\"odinger system. We discuss some applications of ourresults.
Jack superpolynomials, superpartition ordering and determinantal  formulas.  We call superpartitions the indices of the eigenfunctions of thesupersymmetric extension of the trigonometric Calogero-Moser-Sutherland model.We obtain an ordering on superpartitions from the explicit action of themodel's Hamiltonian on monomial superfunctions. This allows to define Jacksuperpolynomials as the unique eigenfunctions of the model that decomposetriangularly, with respect to this ordering, on the basis of monomialsuperfunctions. This further leads to a simple and explicit determinantalexpression for the Jack superpolynomials.
Reducibility and Gribov Problem in Topological Quantum Field Theory.  In spite of its simplicity and beauty, the Mathai-Quillen formulation ofcohomological topological quantum field theory with gauge symmetry suffers twobasic problems: $i$) the existence of reducible field configurations on whichthe action of the gauge group is not free and $ii$) the Gribov ambiguityassociated with gauge fixing, i. e. the lack of global definition on the spaceof gauge orbits of gauge fixed functional integrals. In this paper, we showthat such problems are in fact related and we propose a general completelygeometrical recipe for their treatment. The space of field configurations isaugmented in such a way to render the action of the gauge group free andlocalization is suitably modified. In this way, the standard Mathai--Quillenformalism can be rigorously applied. The resulting topological action containsthe ordinary action as a subsector and can be shown to yield a local quantumfield theory, which is argued to be renormalizable as well. The salient featureof our method is that the Gribov problem is inherent in localization, and thuscan be dealt with in a completely equivariant setting, whereas gauge fixing isfree of Gribov ambiguities. For the stratum of irreducible gauge orbits, thecase of main interest in applications, the Gribov problem is solvable.Conversely, for the the strata of reducible gauge orbits, the Gribov problemcannot be solved in general and the obstruction may be described in thelanguage of sheaf theory. The formalism is applied to the Donaldson--Wittenmodel.
Holographic Reconstruction of Spacetime and Renormalization in the  AdS/CFT Correspondence.  We develop a systematic method for renormalizing the AdS/CFT prescription forcomputing correlation functions. This involves regularizing the bulk on-shellsupergravity action in a covariant way, computing all divergences, addingcounterterms to cancel them and then removing the regulator. We explicitly workout the case of pure gravity up to six dimensions and of gravity coupled toscalars. The method can also be viewed as providing a holographicreconstruction of the bulk spacetime metric and of bulk fields on thisspacetime, out of conformal field theory data. Knowing which sources are turnedon is sufficient in order to obtain an asymptotic expansion of the bulk metricand of bulk fields near the boundary to high enough order so that all infrareddivergences of the on-shell action are obtained. To continue the holographicreconstruction of the bulk fields one needs new CFT data: the expectation valueof the dual operator. In particular, in order to obtain the bulk metric oneneeds to know the expectation value of stress-energy tensor of the boundarytheory. We provide completely explicit formulae for the holographicstress-energy tensors up to six dimensions. We show that both the gravitationaland matter conformal anomalies of the boundary theory are correctly reproduced.We also obtain the conformal transformation properties of the boundarystress-energy tensors.
Quasiclassical expansion for Tr{(-1)^F exp(-\beta H)}.  We start with some methodic remarks referring to purely bosonic quantumsystems and then explain how corrections to the leading--order quasiclassicalresult for the fermion--graded partition function Tr{(-1)^F exp(-\beta H)} canbe calculated at small \beta. We perform such calculation for certainsupersymmetric quantum mechanical systems where such corrections are expectedto appear. We consider in particular supersymmetric Yang-Mills theory reducedto (0+1) dimensions and were surprised to find that the correction of order  We discuss also a nonstandard N =2 supersymmetric sigma model defined on S^3and other 3--dimensional conformally flat manifolds and show that thequasiclassical expansion breaks down for this system.
Facts and Fictions about Anti deSitter Spacetimes with Local Qantum  Matter.  It is natural to analyse the AdS$_{d+1}$-CQFT$_{d}$ correspondence in thecontext of the conformal- compactification and covering formalism. In this wayone obtains additional inside about Rehren's rigorous algebraic holography inconnection with the degree of freedom issue which in turn allows to illustratesthe subtle but important differences beween the original string theory-basedMaldacena conjecture and Rehren's theorem in the setting of an intrinsicfield-coordinatization-free formulation of algebraic QFT. I also discussanother more generic type of holography related to light fronts which seems tobe closer to 't Hooft's original ideas on holography. This in turn is naturallyconnected with the generic concept of ``Localization Entropy'', a quantumpre-form of Bekenstein's classical black-hole surface entropy.
Renormalization in quantum field theory and the Riemann-Hilbert problem  I: the Hopf algebra structure of graphs and the main theorem.  This paper gives a complete selfcontained proof of our result announced inhep-th/9909126 showing that renormalization in quantum field theory is aspecial instance of a general mathematical procedure of extraction of finitevalues based on the Riemann-Hilbert problem.  We shall first show that for any quantum field theory, the combinatorics ofFeynman graphs gives rise to a Hopf algebra $\Hc$ which is commutative as analgebra. It is the dual Hopf algebra of the envelopping algebra of a Liealgebra $\ud G$ whose basis is labelled by the one particle irreducible Feynmangraphs. The Lie bracket of two such graphs is computed from insertions of onegraph in the other and vice versa. The corresponding Lie group $G$ is the groupof characters of $\Hc$.  We shall then show that, using dimensional regularization, the bare(unrenormalized) theory gives rise to a loop $$ \g (z) \in G \qquad z \in C $$where $C$ is a small circle of complex dimensions around the integer dimension$D$ of space-time. Our main result is that the renormalized theory is just theevaluation at $z = D$ of the holomorphic part $\g_+$ of the Birkhoffdecomposition of $\g$.  We begin to analyse the group $G$ and show that it is a semi-direct productof an easily understood abelian group by a highly non-trivial group closelytied up with groups of diffeomorphisms. The analysis of this latter group aswell as the interpretation of the renormalization group and of anomalousdimensions are the content of our second paper with the same overall title.
N=1 supersymmetric sigma model with boundaries, I.  We study an N=1 two-dimensional non-linear sigma model with boundariesrepresenting, e.g., a gauge fixed open string. We describe the full set ofboundary conditions compatible with N=1 superconformal symmetry. The problem isanalyzed in two different ways: by studying requirements for invariance of theaction, and by studying the conserved supercurrent. We present the target spaceinterpretation of these results, and identify the appearance of partiallyintegrable almost product structures.
Nonassociative Star Product Deformations for D-brane Worldvolumes in  Curved Backgrounds.  We investigate the deformation of D-brane world-volumes in curvedbackgrounds. We calculate the leading corrections to the boundary conformalfield theory involving the background fields, and in particular we study thecorrelation functions of the resulting system. This allows us to obtain theworld-volume deformation, identifying the open string metric and thenoncommutative deformation parameter. The picture that unfolds is thefollowing: when the gauge invariant combination \omega = B + F is constant oneobtains the standard Moyal deformation of the brane world-volume. Similarly,when d\omega = 0 one obtains the noncommutative Kontsevich deformation,physically corresponding to a curved brane in a flat background. When thebackground is curved, H = d\omega \not= 0, we find that the relevant algebraicstructure is still based on the Kontsevich expansion, which now defines anonassociative star product with an A_\infty homotopy associative algebraicstructure. We then recover, within this formalism, some known results of Matrixtheory in curved backgrounds. In particular, we show how the effective actionobtained in this framework describes, as expected, the dielectric effect ofD-branes. The polarized branes are interpreted as a soliton, associated to thecondensation of the brane gauge field.
Toeplitz Quantization of K\"ahler Manifolds and $gl(N)$ $N\to\infty$.  For general compact K\"ahler manifolds it is shown that both Toeplitzquantization and geometric quantization lead to a well-defined (by operatornorm estimates) classical limit. This generalizes earlier results of theauthors and Klimek and Lesniewski obtained for the torus and higher genusRiemann surfaces, respectively. We thereby arrive at an approximation of thePoisson algebra by a sequence of finite-dimensional matrix algebras $gl(N)$,$N\to\infty$.
Balanced Topological Field Theories.  We describe a class of topological field theories called ``balancedtopological field theories.'' These theories are associated to moduli problemswith vanishing virtual dimension and calculate the Euler character of variousmoduli spaces. We show that these theories are closely related to the geometryand equivariant cohomology of ``iterated superspaces'' that carry twodifferentials. We find the most general action for these theories, which turnsout to define Morse theory on field space. We illustrate the constructions withnumerous examples. Finally, we relate these theories to topologicalsigma-models twisted using an isometry of the target space.
A_N-type Dunkl operators and new spin Calogero-Sutherland models.  A new family of A_N-type Dunkl operators preserving a polynomial subspace offinite dimension is constructed. Using a general quadratic combination of theseoperators and the usual Dunkl operators, several new families of exactly andquasi-exactly solvable quantum spin Calogero-Sutherland models are obtained.These include, in particular, three families of quasi-exactly solvable ellipticspin Hamiltonians.
Kodaira-Spencer Theory of Gravity and Exact Results for Quantum String  Amplitudes.  We develop techniques to compute higher loop string amplitudes for twisted$N=2$ theories with $\hat c=3$ (i.e. the critical case). An importantingredient is the discovery of an anomaly at every genus in decoupling of BRSTtrivial states, captured to all orders by a master anomaly equation. In aparticular realization of the $N=2$ theories, the resulting string field theoryis equivalent to a topological theory in six dimensions, the Kodaira--Spencertheory, which may be viewed as the closed string analog of the Chern--Simontheory. Using the mirror map this leads to computation of the `number' ofholomorphic curves of higher genus curves in Calabi--Yau manifolds. It is shownthat topological amplitudes can also be reinterpreted as computing correctionsto superpotential terms appearing in the effective 4d theory resulting fromcompactification of standard 10d superstrings on the corresponding $N=2$theory. Relations with $c=1$ strings are also pointed out.
Generalized two-dimensional Yang-Mills theory is a matrix string theory.  We consider two-dimensional Yang-Mills theories on arbitrary Riemannsurfaces. We introduce a generalized Yang-Mills action, which coincides withthe ordinary one on flat surfaces but differs from it in its coupling totwo-dimensional gravity. The quantization of this theory in the unitary gaugecan be consistently performed taking into account all the topological sectorsarising from the gauge-fixing procedure. The resulting theory is naturallyinterpreted as a Matrix String Theory, that is as a theory of covering mapsfrom a two-dimensional world-sheet to the target Riemann surface.
Perturbative and Non-Perturbative Results for $N=2$ Heterotic Strings.  In this paper we summarize our recent work about perturbative andnon-perturbative effects in four-dimensional heterotic strings with $N=2$space-time supersymmetry.
Introduction to D-branes.  D-branes are string theory solitons defined by boundary conditions on openstrings that end on them. They play an important role in the non-perturbativedynamics of string theory and have found a wide range of applications. Theselectures give a basic introduction to D-branes and their dynamics.
D-branes and Creation of Strings.  We review two types of D-branes processes where open strings are created. Inthe first type, a closed string incident on a collection of D-branes isconverted into a number of open strings running along them. For the case ofthreebranes we compare the leading absorption rate with that in semiclassicalgravity, and find exact agreement. A supersymmetric non-renormalization theoremguarantees that this agreement survives all corrections in powers of the stringcoupling times the number of branes. The second type of process is creation ofstretched open strings by crossing D-branes. We show that this is possiblewhenever a p-brane passes through an (8-p)-brane positioned orthogonally to it.The extra attractive force exerted by the stretched open string is crucial forfinding that the net force cancels in this BPS system.
The Complete Form of N=2 Supergravity and its Place in the General  Framework of D=4 N--Extended Supergravities.  Relying on the geometrical set up of Special K\"ahler Geometry andQuaternionic Geometry, which I discussed at length in my Lectures at the 1995edition of this Spring School, I present here the recently obtained fullygeneral form of N=2 supergravity with completely arbitrary couplings. Thislagrangian has already been used in the literature to obtain various results:notably the partial breaking of supersymmetry and various extremal black--holesolutions. My emphasis, however, is only on providing the reader with acompletely explicit and ready to use component expression of the supergravityaction. All the details of the derivation are omitted but all the definitionsof the items entering the lagrangian and the supersymmetry transformation rulesare given.
Supersymmetry and First Order Equations for Extremal States: Monopoles,  Hyperinstantons, Black-Holes and p-Branes.  In this lecture I review recent results on the first order equationsdescribing BPS extremal states, in particular N=2 extremal black-holes. Therole of special geometry is emphasized also in the rigid theory and acomparison is drawn with the supersymmetric derivation of instantons andhyperinstantons in topological field theories. Work in progress on theapplication of solvable Lie algebras to the discussion of BPS states inmaximally extended supergravities is outlined.
Dualities and phase transitions for Calabi-Yau 3folds and 4folds.  We review several aspects of heterotic, type II, F-theory, and M-theorycompactifications on Calabi-Yau threefolds and fourfolds. In the context ofdualities we focus on the heterotic gauge structure determined by the varioustypes of fibration relevant in the framework of heterotic/type II duality inD=4 as well as 4D F-theory. We also consider transitions between Calabi-Yaumanifolds in both three and four dimensions and review some of the consequencesfor the behavior of the superpotential.
Matrix Theory.  This is an expanded version of talks given by the author at the TriesteSpring School on Supergravity and Superstrings in April of 1997 and at theaccompanying workshop. The manuscript is intended to be a mini-review of MatrixTheory. The motivations and some of the evidence for the theory are presented,as well as a clear statement of the current puzzles about compactification tolow dimensions.
Electromagnetic dipole radiation of oscillating D-branes.  I emphasize analogy between Dp-branes in string theories and solitons ingauge theories comparing their common properties and showing differences. Wewill show that for certain excitations of the string/D3-brane system Neumannboundary conditions emerge from the Born-Infeld dynamics. The excitations whichare coming down the string with a polarization along a direction parallel tothe brane are almost completely reflected. For the wavelengths much larger thanthe string scale only a small fraction of the energy escapes in the form ofdipole radiation. The physical interpretation is that a string attached to the3-brane manifests itself as an electric charge, and waves on the string causethe end point of the string to freely oscillate and produce electromagneticdipole radiation in the asymptotic outer region. The magnitude of emitted poweris in fact exactly equal to the one given by Thompson formula in ordinaryelectrodynamics.
Dual String Pairs With N=1 And N=2 Supersymmetry In Four Dimensions.  Based on a simple adiabatic argument and by considering the heterotic stringcounterpart of certain symmetries of Type II superstrings such as $(-1)^{F_L}$and orientation reversal, we construct orbifold candidates for dual pairs ofheterotic and Type II string theories with $N=2$ and $N=1$ supersymmetry. Wealso analyze from a similar point of view the ${\rm K3}$ fibrations that enterin recently proposed $N=2$ candidates and use this structure together withcertain orientation-reversing symmetries to construct $N=1$ dual pairs. Thesepairs involve generalizations of Type I vacua which can be equivalent to$E_8\times E_8$ heterotic strings, while standard Type I vacua are related to$SO(32)$.
DLCQ strings and branched covers of torii.  In this lecture I will review some results about the discrete light-conequantization (DLCQ) of strings and some connections of the results with matrixstring theory. I will review arguments which show that, in the path integralrepresentation of the thermal free energy of a string, the compactificationswhich are necessary to obtain discrete light-cone quantization constrains theintegral over all Riemann surfaces of a given genus to the set of those Riemannsurfaces which are branched covers of a particular torus. I then review anexplicit check of this result at genus 1. I discuss the intriguing suggestionthat these branched covers of a torus are related to those which are found in acertain limit of the matrix string model
UV/IR Mixing for Noncommutative Complex Scalar Field Theory, II  (Interaction with Gauge Fields).  We consider noncommutative analogs of scalar electrodynamics and N=2 D=4 SUSYYang-Mills theory. We show that one-loop renormalizability of noncommutativescalar electrodynamics requires the scalar potential to be an anticommutatorsquared. This form of the scalar potential differs from the one expected fromthe point of view of noncommutative gauge theories with extended SUSYcontaining a square of commutator. We show that fermion contributions restorethe commutator in the scalar potential. This provides one-looprenormalizability of noncommutative N=2 SUSY gauge theory. We demonstrate apresence of non-integrable IR singularities in noncommutative scalarelectrodynamics for general coupling constants. We find that for a specialratio of coupling constants these IR singularities vanish. Also we show that IRpoles are absent in noncommutative N=2 SUSY gauge theory.
Duality, Central Charges and Entropy of Extremal BPS Black Holes.  We report on some general results on the physics of extremal BPS black holesin four and five dimensions. The duality-invariant entropy-formula for all$N>2$ extended supergravities is derived. Its relation with the fixed-scalarcondition for the black-hole ``potential energy'' wich extremizes the BPS massis obtained. BPS black holes preserving different fractions of supersymmetryare classified in a U-duality invariant set up. The latter deals with differentorbits of the fundamental representations of the exceptional groups $E_{7(7)}$and $E_{6(6)}$. We comment upon the interpretation of these results in a stringand M-theory framework.
String duality, automorphic forms, and generalized Kac-Moody algebras.  This is a summary of a review talk at the Trieste conference on dualitysymmetries in string theory, April 1997. We review some work that has been doneon the relation of BPS states, automorphic forms and the geometry of thequantum ground states of string compactifications with extended supersymmetry,emphasizing the (hypothetically) central role of BPS algebras.
Aspects of N=1 String Dynamics.  We review several topics of interest in the study of 4d N=1 supersymmetriccompactifications of the heterotic string. After a brief introduction to theconstruction of such models, our focus is on the novel physics which occurs atsingularities in the moduli space of vacua. Among the phenomena we discuss arenonperturbative superpotentials, dynamical generation of poles in variouslow-energy couplings, and phase transitions which change the net number ofchiral generations.
Beyond the Frenkel-Kac-Segal construction of affine Lie algebras.  This contribution reviews recent progress in constructing affine Lie algebrasat arbitrary level in terms of vertex operators. The string model describes acompletely compactified subcritical chiral bosonic string whose momentumlattice is taken to be the (Lorentzian) affine weight lattice. The main featureof the new realization is the replacement of the ordinary string oscillators byphysical DDF operators, whereas the unphysical position operators aresubstituted by certain linear combinations of the Lorentz generators. As a sideresult we obtain simple expressions for the affine Weyl translations as Lorentzboosts. Various applications of the construction are discussed.
Duality and BPS spectra in N=2 supersymmetric QCD.  I review, with some pedagogy, two different approaches to the computation ofBPS spectra in N=2 supersymmetric QCD with gauge group SU(2). The first one issemiclassical and has been widely used in the literature. The second one makesuse of constraints coming from the non perturbative, global structure of theCoulomb branch of these theories. The second method allows for a description ofdiscontinuities in the BPS spectra at strong coupling, and should lead toaccurate test of duality conjectures in N=2 theories.
Quantization of p-branes, D-p-branes and M-branes.  Killing spinors of space-time BPS configurations play an important role inquantization of theories with the fermionic worldvolume local symmetry. We showhere how it works for the GS superstring, BST supermembrane and M-5-brane. Weshow that the non-linear generalization of the (2,0) d=6 tensor supermultipletaction is the M-5-brane action in a Killing gauge. For D-p-branes the novelfeature of quantization is that they can be quantized Lorentz covariantly, inparticular, for D-0-brane a gauge exists where the action is covariant andfree. We present a general condition on possible choice of gauges for thekappa-symmetric branes.
One Loop Corrections to Coupling Constants in IR-regulated String Theory.  Exact Superstring solutions are constructed moving in 4-D space-time withpositive curvature and non-trivial dilaton and antisymmetric tensor fields. Thefull spectrum of string excitations is derived as a function of moduli fields$T^{i}$ and the scale $\mu^2=1/(k+2)$ which induced by the non-zero backgroundfields. The spectrum of string excitations has a non-zero mass gap $\mu^2$ andin the weak curvature limit ($\mu$ small) $\mu^2$ plays the role of a welldefined infrared regulator, consistent with modular invariance, gaugeinvariance, supersymmetry and chirality. The effects of a covariantly constant chomo-magnetic field $B$ as well asadditional curvature can be derived exactly up to one string-loop level. Thus,the one-loop corrections to all couplings (gravitational, gauge and Yukawas)are unambiguously computed and are finite both in the Ultra-Violet and theInfra-Red regime. These corrections are necessary for quantitative stringsuperunification predictions at low energies. Similar calculations are done inthe effective field theory. The one-loop corrections to the couplings are alsofound to satisfy Infrared Flow Equations.
Classical and Quantum Composite p-branes.  We discuss classical composite p-brane solutions and their quantization usingthe conjecture that their fluctuations may be described via degrees of freedomof Dirichlet strings ended on these p-branes. We work with Dirichlet(super)strings in framework of string field theory for open (super)strings. Toelaborate in this scheme the eleventh dimension modes we take just a collectionof Dirichlet strings which in their middle points have jumps in eleventhdimension. This theory can be seen as string field theory in infinite momentumframe of an eleven dimensional object.
Spectral geometry for strings and branes.  I give a short guide into applications of the heat kernel technique tostring/brane physics with an emphasis on the emerging boundary value problems.
WDVV Equations in Seiberg-Witten theory and associative algebras.  This is a short review of the results on the associativity algebras and WDVVequations found recently for the Seiberg-Witten solutions of N=2 4d SUSY gaugetheories. The presentation is mostly based on the integrable treatment of thesesolutions.
Dualities in Supersymmetric Field Theories.  Lectures presented at the 33rd Karpacz Winter School ``Duality: Strings andFields'' briefly introducing dualities in four-dimensional quantum fieldtheory, and summarizing results found in supersymmetric field theories. Thefirst lecture describes physical aspects of electric-magnetic (EM), strong-weakcoupling (S), and infrared (IR) dualities. The second lecture focuses onresults and conjectures concerning S-duality in N=2 supersymmetric gaugetheories. The third lecture discusses IR-dualities and their relation toS-duality in N=1 supersymmetric field theories.
Tree Amplitudes and Linearized SUSY Invariants in D=11 Supergravity.  We exploit the tree level bosonic 4-particle scattering amplitudes in D=11supergravity to construct the bosonic part of a linearized supersymmetry-,coordinate- and gauge-invariant. By differentiation, this invariant can bepromoted to be the natural lowest (two-loop) order counterterm. Its existenceimplies that the perturbative supersymmetry does not protect this ultimatesupergravity from infinities, given also the recently demonstrated divergenceof its 4-graviton amplitude.
From N=2 strings to F&M theory.  Taking the N=2 strings as the starting point, we discuss the equivalentself-dual field theories and analyse their symmetry structure in 2+2dimensions. Restoring the full `Lorentz' invariance in the target spacenecessarily leads to an extension of the N=2 string theory to a theory of 2+2dimensional supermembranes propagating in 2+10 dimensional target space. Thesupermembrane requires maximal conformal supersymmetry in 2+2 dimensions, inthe way advocated by Siegel. The corresponding self-dual N=4 Yang-Mills theoryand the self-dual N=8 (gauged) supergravity in 2+2 dimensions thus appear to benaturally associated to the membrane theory, not a string. Since the sametheory of membranes seems to represent the M-theory which is apparentlyunderlying the all known N=1 string theories, the N=2 strings now appear onequal footing with the other string models as particular limits of the uniquefundamental theory. Unlike the standard 10-dimensional superstrings, the N=2strings seem to be much closer to a membrane description of F&M theory.
Wilson loops in SYM theory: from weak to strong coupling.  We review Wilson loops in N=4 supersymmetric Yang-Mills theory with emphasison the exact results. The implications are discussed in the context of theAdS/CFT correspondence.
The Multiplicative Anomaly of Regularized Functional Determinants.  The multiplicative anomaly related to the functional regularized determinantsinvolving products of elliptic operators is introduced and some of itsproperties discussed. Its relevance concerning the mathematical consistency isstressed. With regard to its possible physical relevance, some examples areillustrated.
Introduction to Seiberg-Witten Theory and its Stringy Origin.  We give an elementary introduction to the recent solution of $N=2$supersymmetric Yang-Mills theory. In addition, we review how it can bere-derived from string duality.
Global Space-time Symmetries Gauging and Kaluza-Klein Dimensional  Reduction.  A relation between dimensional reduction and space-time symmetry gauging isoutlined.
String Dualities from Matrix Theory: A Summary.  I review the appearance, within Matrix theory, of the $SL(5,Z)$ U-dualitygroup of M-theory on $T^4$, and the duality between M-theory on K3 and theHeterotic string on $T^3$. In both cases the duality is geometrical andmanifest.
Solitons, Black Holes and Duality in String Theory.  These lectures are intended as an introduction to some of the basic aspectsof string solitons, duality and black holes. We begin with a discussion of therole of classical solutions in duality, then focus on string/string duality andfundamental membranes. Finally, we examine the feature of compositeness ofstring solitons, and its implications for bound states and black holethermodynamics. As these lectures are aimed primarily at those less familiarwith this field, technical details are minimized.
Duality and Global Symmetries.  This is a general introduction to duality in field theories. The existenceand breaking of global symmetries is used as a guideline to systematicallyprove duality between different field theories. Systems discussed includeabelian and non-abelian T-duality in string theory, abelian and nonabelianbosonization, and duality for massless and massive antisymmetric tensor fieldtheories in arbitrary number of dimensions. Open questions regarding thesetechniques are also discussed. (Lectures given at 33rd Karpacz Winter School`Duality: Strings and Fields' .)
S-Duality in N=4 Yang-Mills Theories.  Evidence in favor of $SL(2,Z)$ S-duality in $N=4$ supersymmetric Yang-Millstheories in four dimensions and with general compact, simple gauge groups ispresented. (Contribution to the Proceedings of the Strings '95 conference,March 13-18, 1995, USC, and the Proceedings of the Trieste Conference onS-Duality and Mirror Symmetry, June 5-9, 1995.)
Surprises in Open-String Perturbation Theory.  The perturbative analysis of models of open and closed superstrings presentsa number of surprises. For instance, variable numbers of antisymmetric tensorsensure their consistency via generalized Green-Schwarz cancellations and anovel type of singularity occurs in their moduli spaces. All these features arerelated, in one way or another, to the presence of boundaries on the worldsheet or, equivalently, of extended objects (branes) interacting with the bulktheory in space time. String dualities have largely widened the interest inthese models, that exhibit a wealth of generic non-perturbative features ofString Theory.
The supermembrane with winding.  The supersymmetry algebra for supermembranes, quantized in the light-conegauge, exhibits central charges induced by wrapping the membrane around compactdimensions. These central charges are manifestly consistent with Lorentzsymmetry. While the central charges raise the mass of the membrane states, theystill leave the mass spectrum continuous, at least generically. The lower boundon the mass spectrum is set by the winding number and corresponds to a BPSstate.
BPS Saturated Dyonic Black Holes of $N=8$ Supergravity Vacua.  We summarize the results for four-dimensional Bogomol'nyi-Prasad- Sommerfield(BPS) saturated dyonic black hole solutions arising in the Kaluza-Klein sectorand the three-form field sector of the eleven-dimensional supergravity on aseven-torus. These black hole solutions break $3\over 4$ of $N=8$supersymmetry, fill out the multipletes of $U$-duality group, and the twoclasses of solutions are related to each other by a discrete symmetrytransformation in $E_7$. Using the field redefinitions of the correspondingeffective actions, we present these solutions in terms of fields describingclasses of dyonic black holes carrying charges of $U(1)$ gauge fields inNeveu-Schwarz-Neveu-Schwarz and/or Ramond-Ramond sector(s) of the type-IIAsuperstring on a six-torus. We also summarize the dependence of their ADMmasses on the asymptotic values of scalar fields, parameterizing the toroidalmoduli space and the string coupling constant.
N=2 Electric-magnetic duality in a chiral background.  We establish the consistency of duality transformations for generic systemsof $N=2$ vector supermultiplets in the presence of a chiral background field.This is relevant, for instance, when dealing with spurion fields or whenconsidering higher-derivative couplings of vector multiplets to supergravity.We point out that under duality most quantities do not transform as functions.With few exceptions, true functions are nonholomorphic, even though the dualitytransformations themselves are holomorphic in nature.
Lectures on 2D Yang-Mills Theory, Equivariant Cohomology and Topological  Field Theories.  These are expository lectures reviewing  (1) recent developments in two-dimensional Yang-Mills theory, and  (2) the construction of topological field theory Lagrangians. Topologicalfield theory is discussed from the point of view of infinite-dimensionaldifferential geometry. We emphasize the unifying role of equivariant cohomologyboth as the underlying principle in the formulation of BRST transformation lawsand as a central concept in the geometrical interpretation of topological fieldtheory path integrals.
Supersymmetric quantum mechanics, supermembranes and Dirichlet particles.  We review models of supersymmetric quantum mechanics that are important inthe description of supermembranes and of Dirichlet particles, which play a rolein the context of M-theory.
Non-Singular String-Cosmologies From Exact Conformal Field Theories.  Non-singular two and three dimensional string cosmologies are constructedusing the exact conformal field theories corresponding to SO(2,1)/SO(1,1) andSO(2,2)/SO(2,1). {\it All} semi-classical curvature singularities are canceledin the exact theories for both of these cosets, but some new quantum curvaturesingularities emerge. However, considering different patches of the globalmanifolds, allows the construction of non-singular spacetimes with cosmologicalinterpretation. In both two and three dimensions, we construct non-singularoscillating cosmologies, non-singular expanding and inflationary cosmologiesincluding a de Sitter (exponential) stage with positive scalar curvature aswell as non-singular contracting and deflationary cosmologies. Similaritiesbetween the two and three dimensional cases suggest a general picture forhigher dimensional coset cosmologies: Anisotropy seems to be a genericunavoidable feature, cosmological singularities are generically avoided and itis possible to construct non-singular cosmologies where some spatial dimensionsare experiencing inflation while the others experience deflation.
Remarks on T-duality for open strings.  This contribution gives in sigma-model language a short review of recentwork on T-duality for open strings in the presence of abelian or non-abeliangauge fields. Furthermore, it adds a critical discussion of the relationbetween RG beta-functions and the Born-Infeld action in the case of a stringcoupled to a D-brane.
Uniform Twistor-Like Formulation of Massive and Massless Superparticles  with Tensorial Central Charges.  We construct the manifestly Lorentz-invariant twistorial formulation of N=1D=4 superparticle with tensorial central charges which describes massive andmassless cases in a uniform manner. The tensorial central charges are realizedin terms of even spinor variables and central charge coordinates. The fullanalysis of the number of conserved supersymmetries has been carried out. Inthe massive case the superparticle preserves 1/4 or 1/2 of target-spacesupersymmetries whereas the massless superparticle preserves two or threesupersymmetries.
Remarks on the M5-Brane.  The fivebrane of M theory -- the M5-brane -- is an especially interestingobject. It plays a central role in a geometric understanding of theSeiberg-Witten solution of N=2 D=4 gauge theories as well as in certain new 6dquantum theories. The low energy effective action is an interacting theory of a(2,0) tensor multiplet. The fact that this multiplet contains a two-form gaugefield with a self-dual field strength poses special challenges. Recent progressin addressing those challenges is reviewed.
Notes on Theories with 16 Supercharges.  We survey the various field theories with 16 real supercharges. The mostwidely known theory in this class is the N=4 theory in four dimensions. Themoduli space of vacua of these theories are described and the physics at thesingularities of the moduli spaces are studied.
D-branes and Matrix Theory in Curved Space.  We discuss the relation between supersymmetric gauge theory of branes andsupergravity; as it was discovered in D-brane physics, and as it appears inMatrix theory, with emphasis on motion in curved backgrounds. We argue thatgauged sigma model Lagrangians can be used as definitions of Matrix theory incurved space. Lecture given at Strings '97; June 20, 1997.
Notes on Connes' Construction of the Standard Model.  The mathematical apparatus of non commutative geometry and operator algebraswhich Connes has brought to bear to construct a rational scheme for theinternal symmetries of the standard model is presented from the physicist'spoint of view. Gauge symmetry, anomaly freedom, conservation of electriccharge, parity violation and charge conjugation all play a vital role. When puttogether with a relatively simple set of algebraic algorithms they deliver manyof the features of the standard model which otherwise seem rather ad hoc.
BPS States, Weight Spaces and Vanishing Cycles.  We review some simple group theoretical properties of BPS states, in relationwith the singular homology of level surfaces. Primary focus is on classical andquantum N=2 supersymmetric Yang-Mills theory, though the considerations can beapplied to string theory as well.
Connections between M-theory and superstrings.  This article reviews the non-perturbative structure of certain higherderivative terms in the type II string theory effective action and theirconnection to one-loop effects in eleven-dimensional supergravity compactifiedon a torus. New material is also included that was not presented in the talks.
"Peireles Substitution" and Chern-Simons Quantum Mechanics.  An elementary derivation is given for the ``Peierles substitution'' used inprojecting dynamics in a strong magnetic field onto the lowest Landau level.The projection of wavefunctions and the ordering prescription for the projectedHamiltonian is explained.
Holomorphic Couplings in String Theory.  In these lectures we review the properties of holomorphic couplings in theeffective action of four-dimensional N=1 and N=2 closed string vacua. Webriefly outline their role in establishing a duality among (classes of)different string vacua. (Lectures presented by J. Louis at the Trieste SpringSchool 1996.)
Perturbative gravitational couplings and Siegel modular forms in  $D=4,N=2$ string models.  We consider four-parameter $D=4,N=2$ string models with Hodge numbers$(4,214- 12n)$ and $(4,148)$, and we express their perturbative Wilsoniangravitational coupling $F_1$ in terms of Siegel modular forms.
Lectures on supersymmetric gauge theories and electric-magnetic duality.  We review some of the recent work on the dynamics of four dimensional,supersymmetric gauge theories. The kinematics are largely determined byholomorphy and the dynamics are governed by duality. The results shed light onthe phases of gauge theories. Some results and interpretations which have notbeen published before are also included.
Composite p-branes in various dimensions.  We review an algebraic method of finding the composite p-brane solutions fora generic Lagrangian, in arbitrary spacetime dimension, describing aninteraction of a graviton, a dilaton and one or two antisymmetric tensors. Weset the Fock--De Donder harmonic gauge for the metric and the "no-force"condition for the matter fields. Then equations for the antisymmetric field arereduced to the Laplace equation and the equation of motion for the dilaton andthe Einstein equations for the metric are reduced to an algebraic equation.Solutions composed of n constituent p-branes with n independent harmonicfunctions are given. The form of the solutions demonstrates the harmonicfunctions superposition rule in diverse dimensions. Relations with knownsolutions in D=10 and D=11 dimensions are discussed.
Osp(1|8)-Gravity.  We analyze a new MacDowell-Mansouri $R^2$-type supergravity action based onthe superalgebra Osp(1|8). This contribution summarizes the work ofhep-th/9702052.
D-brane decay and Hawking Radiation.  Tree level decay amplitudes of near-BPS D-brane configurations are known toexactly reproduce Hawking radiation rates from corresponding black holes at lowenergies even though the brane configurations describe semiclassical blackholes only when the open string couplings are large. We show that a large classof one (open string) loop corrections to emission processes from D-branesvanish at low energies and nonvanishing loop contributions have an energydependence consistent with black hole answers, thus providing a justificationfor the agreement of the tree level results with semiclassical answers.
Aspects of D-brane actions.  A couple of issues concerning the effective dynamics of D-branes in stringtheory are discussed. Primarily, I am concerned with linearization of theactions by introduction of non-propagating fields and a full super- andkappa-symmetric description of D-branes.
Lectures on Superstring and M Theory Dualities.  These lectures begin by reviewing the evidence for S duality of thetoroidally compactified heterotic string in 4d that was obtained in the period1992--94. Next they review recently discovered dualities that relate all fiveof the 10d superstring theories and a quantum extension of 11d supergravitycalled M theory. The study of p-branes of various dimensions (some of which areD-branes) plays a central role. The final sections survey supersymmetric stringvacua in 6d and some of the dual constructions by which they can be obtained.Special emphasis is given to a class of N=1 models that exhibit``heterotic-heterotic duality.''
Introduction to D-Branes, with Applications.  A brief review of some of the central ideas, terminology and techniques ofthe technology of orientifolds and D-branes is presented. Some applications arereviewed, including the construction of dual solitonic strings in the contextof string/string duality, the computation of the Bekenstein-Hawkingentropy/area law for extremal black holes, and the construction of N=1 stringvacua in dimensions lower than ten. (Contribution to the proceedings of thefourth International Workshop on Supersymmetry and Unification of FundamentalInteractions (SUSY '96), held at the University of Maryland at College Park,May 29 - June 1, 1996.)
Gravitons and gauge fields in 5d Chern-Simons supergravity.  Despite the nice geometrical properties of higher dimensional Chern-Simons(CS) supergravity theories these actions suffer from one major drawback,namely, their connection with the real world. After some quick remarks onthree-dimensional gravity, we consider five-dimensional CS supergravity andstudy to what extend this theory reproduces the standard low energy descriptionof gravitons and gauge fields. We point out that if one deforms the CS actionby changing the value of the cosmological constant by a small amount (thusbreaking the CS symmetry), propagation around AdS becomes non-trivial,asymptotically (AdS) Schwarzschild solutions exist, and the gauge fieldacquires its standard quadratic propagator.
Spectral Zeta Functions in Non-Commutative Spacetimes.  Formulas for the most general case of the zeta function associated to aquadratic+linear+constant form (in {\bf Z}) are given. As examples, thespectral zeta functions $\zeta_\alpha (s)$ corresponding to bosonic ($\alpha=2$) and to fermionic ($\alpha =3$) quantum fields living on a noncommutative,partially toroidal spacetime are investigated. Simple poles show up at $s=0$,as well as in other places (simple or double, depending on the number ofcompactified, noncompactified, and noncommutative dimensions of the spacetime).This poses a challenge to the zeta-function regularization procedure.
(0,2) string compactifications.  Using the simple current method we study a class of $(0,2)$ SCFTs which weconjecture to be equivalent to (0,2) sigma models constructed in the frameworkof gauged linear sigma models.
Properties of Black Holes in Toroidally Compactified String Theory.  We review the macroscopic and microscopic properties of black holes oftoroidally compactified heterotic and Type II string theory in dimensions4<=D<=9. General charged rotating black hole solutions are obtained by actingon a generating solution with classical duality symmetries. In D=4, D=5 and6<=D<=9, the generating solution for both toroidally compactified Type II andheterotic strings is specified by the ADM mass, [(D-1)/2]-angular momentumcomponents and five, three and two charges, respectively. We give theBekenstein-Hawking entropy for these solutions, address the BPS-saturated limitand compare the results to calculations of the microscopic entropy both in theNS-NS sector and the R-R sector of the theory. We also interpret such blackhole solutions as dimensionally reduced intersecting p-branes of M-theory.
Non Perturbative Check of N=2, D=4 Heterotic/Type II Duality.  We review here some of the checks of string-string duality between N=2, D=4Heterotic and Type II models. The heterotic low energy field theory isreproduced on the type II side. It is also shown to be a generalization in thestring context of the rigid $N=2$ Yang-Mills theory of Seiberg and Witten whichis exactly known. The non perturbative information of this rigid theory is thenrecovered on the type II side. This talk is based on a work done incollaboration with I. Antoniadis.
Black Holes in Matrix Theory.  We review recent progress in understanding black hole structure and dynamicsvia matrix theory.
Four-Dimensional Avatars of Two-Dimensional RCFT.  We investigate a 4D analog of 2D WZW theory. The theory turns out to havesurprising finiteness properties and an infinite-dimensional current algebrasymmetry. Some correlation functions are determined by this symmetry. One wayto define the theory systematically proceeds by the quantization of modulispaces of holomorphic vector bundles over algebraic surfaces. We outline howone can define vertex operators in the theory. Finally, we definefour-dimensional ``conformal blocks'' and present an analog of the Verlindeformula.
Integrating over the Coulomb branch in N=2 gauge theory.  We review the relation of certain integrals over the Coulomb phase of $d=4$,N=2 SO(3) supersymmetric Yang-Mills theory with Donaldson-Witten theory. Wedescribe a new way to write an important contact term in the theory and showhow the integrals generalize to higher rank gauge groups.
Singularities in d=4, N=1 Heterotic String Vacua.  Singularities in the Yukawa and gauge couplings of N=1 compactifications ofthe SO(32) heterotic string are discussed.
Free field realization of SL(2) correlators for admissible  representations, and hamiltonian reduction for correlators.  Talk presented by J.L. Petersen at the 29th Symposium Ahrenshop, BuckowAugust 29-September 2, 1995. A presentation is given of the free fieldrealization relevant to SL(2) WZW theories with a Hilbert space based onadmissible representations. It is known that this implies the presence of twoscreening charges, one involving a fractional power of a free field. We developthe use of fractional calculus for treating in general such cases. We deriveexplicit integral representations of $N$-point conformal blocks. We show thatthey satisfy the Knizhnik-Zamolodchikov equations and we prove how they arerelated to minimal conformal blocks via a formulation of hamiltonian reductionadvocated by Furlan, Ganchev, Paunov and Petkova.
Stringy gravity, interacting tensionless strings and massless higher  spins.  Consequences of a strong version of the AdS/CFT correspondence for extremelystringy physics are examined. In particular, properties of N = 4 supersymmetricYang-Mills theory are used to extract results about interacting tensionlessstrings and massless higher spin fields in an AdS_5 x S^5 background.Furthermore, the thermodynamics of this model signals the presence of aHawking-Page phase transition between AdS_5 space and a "black hole"-like hightemperature configuration even in the extreme string limit.
M(embrane) theory on $T^9$.  An `algebraic' approach to M-theory is briefly reviewed, and a proposal ismade for a similar algebraic structure underlying the $T^9$ compactification of`M(embrane) theory', i.e. the M(atrix) model with area-preservingdiffeomorphism gauge group.
Scattering of Strings from D-branes.  We review a number of perturbative calculations describing the interactionsof D-branes with massless elementary string states. The form factors for thescattering of closed strings off D-branes are closely related to the Venezianoamplitude. They show that, in interactions with strings, D-branes acquire manyof their physical features: the effective size of D-branes is of order thestring scale and expands with the energy of the probe, while the fixed anglescattering amplitudes fall off exponentially. We also calculate the leadingprocess responsible for the absorption of closed strings: the amplitude for aclosed string to turn into a pair of open strings attached to the D-brane. Theinverse of this process describes the Hawking radiation by an excited D-brane.
Black Hole Horizons and the Thermodynamics of Strings.  We review the classical thermodynamics and the greybody factors of general(rotating) non-extreme black holes and discuss universal features of theirnear-horizon geometry. We motivate a microscopic interpretation of generalblack holes that relates the thermodynamics of an effective string theory tothe geometry of the black hole in the vicinity of both the outer and the innerevent horizons. In this framework we interpret several near-extreme examples,the universal low-energy absorption cross-section, and the emission of higherpartial waves from general black holes.
Domain Walls in Supersymmetric QCD.  In this talk we construct BPS-saturated domain walls in supersymmetric QCD,for any values of the masses of the chiral matter superfields. We compare ourresults to those already obtained in the literature and we also discuss theirrange of applicability, as well as future directions that would be desirable toexplore in order to achieve a complete understanding of supersymmetricgluodynamics as a step in improving our knowledge of how QCD works.
Large N Gauge Theory -- Expansions and Transitions.  We use solvable two-dimensional gauge theories to illustrate the issues inrelating large N gauge theory to string theory. We also give an introduction torecent mathematical work which allows constructing master fields for higherdimensional large N theories. We illustrate this with a new derivation of theHopf equation governing the evolution of the spectral density in matrix quantummechanics. Based on lectures given at the 1994 Trieste Spring School on StringTheory, Gauge Theory and Quantum Gravity.
F^4 Terms in N=4 String Vacua.  We discuss $F_{\mu\nu}^4$ terms in torroidal compactifications of type-I andheterotic SO(32) string theory. We give a simple argument why only short BPSmultiplets contribute to these terms at one loop, and verify heterotic-type-Iduality to this order.
N=1 Dual String Pairs and their Modular Superpotentials.  We review the duality between heterotic and F--theory string vacua with N=1space-time supersymmetry in eight, six and four dimensions. In particular, wediscuss two chains of four-dimensional F--theory/heterotic dual string pairs,where F--theory is compactified on certain elliptic Calabi-Yau fourfolds, andthe dual heterotic vacua are given by compactifications on elliptic Calabi-Yauthreefolds plus the specification of the $E_8\times E_8$ gauge bundles. We showthat the massless spectra of the dual pairs agree by using, for one chain ofmodels, an index formula to count the heterotic bundle moduli and determine thedual F--theory spectra from the Hodge numbers of the fourfolds and of the typeIIB base spaces. Moreover as a further check, we demonstrate that for oneparticular heterotic/F--theory dual pair the N=1 superpotentials are the same.
Mirror Maps, Modular Relations and Hypergeometric Series II.  As a continuation of \lianyaufour, we study modular properties of theperiods, the mirror maps and Yukawa couplings for multi-moduli Calabi-Yauvarieties. In Part A of this paper, motivated by the recent work ofKachru-Vafa, we degenerate a three-moduli family of Calabi-Yau toric varietiesalong a codimension one subfamily which can be described by the vanishing ofcertain Mori coordinate, corresponding to going to the ``large volume limit''in a certain direction. Then we see that the deformation space of the subfamilyis the same as a certain family of K3 toric surfaces. This family can in turnbe studied by further degeneration along a subfamily which in the end isdescribed by a family of elliptic curves. The periods of the K3 family (andhence the original Calabi-Yau family) can be described by the squares of theperiods of the elliptic curves. The consequences include: (1) proofs of variousconjectural formulas of physicists \vk\lkm~ involving mirror maps and modularfunctions; (2) new identities involving multi-variable hypergeometric seriesand modular functions -- generalizing \lianyaufour. In Part B, we study fortwo-moduli families the perturbation series of the mirror map and the type AYukawa couplings near certain large volume limits. Our main tool is a new classof polynomial PDEs associated with Fuchsian PDE systems. We derive the firstfew terms in the perturbation series. For the case of degree 12 hypersurfacesin $\P^4[6,2,2,1,1]$, in one limit the series of the couplings are expressed interms of the $j$ function. In another limit, they are expressed in terms ofrational functions. The latter give explicit formulas for infinite sequences of``instanton numbers'' $n_d$.
Anomalous Currents in SCFT$_4$.  We analyse the critical behaviour of anomalous currents in N=1four-dimensional supersymmetric gauge theories in the context ofelectric-magnetic duality. We show that the anomalous dimension of the Konishisuperfield is related to the slope of the beta function at the critical point.We construct a duality map for the Konishi current in the minimal SQCD. As abyproduct we compute the slope of the beta function in the strong couplingregime. We note that the OPE of the stress tensor with itself does not close,but mixes with the Konishi operator. As a result in superconformal theories infour dimensions (SCFT$_4$) there are {\sl two} central charges; they allow usto count both the vector multiplet and the matter multiplet effective degreesof freedom. Some applications to N=4 SYM are discussed.
Lectures on Special Kahler Geometry and Electric--Magnetic Duality  Rotations.  In these lectures I review the general structure of electric--magneticduality rotations in every even space--time dimension. In four dimensions,which is my main concern, I discuss the general issue of symplectic covarianceand how it relates to the typical geometric structures involved by N=2supersymmetry, namely Special K\"ahler geometry for the vector multiplets andeither HyperK\"ahler or Quaternionic geometry for the hypermultiplets. Idiscuss classical continuous dualities versus non--perturbative discretedualities. How the moduli space geometry of an auxiliary dynamical Riemannsurface (or Calabi--Yau threefold) relates to exact space--time dualities isexemplified in detail for the Seiberg Witten model of an $SU(2)$ gauge theory.
Physical Instances of Noncommuting Coordinates.  Noncommuting spatial coordinates and fields can be realized in actualphysical situations. Plane wave solutions to noncommuting photodynamics exhibitviolaton of Lorentz invariance (special relativity).
Interactions Between Branes and Matrix Theories.  We review some tests of the 0-brane and instanton matrix models based oncomparing long-distance interaction potentials between branes and their boundstates (with 1/2,1/4 or 1/8 of supersymmetry) in supergravity and in superYang-Mills descriptions. We first consider the supergravity-SYM correspondenceat the level of the leading term in the interaction potential, and thendescribe some recent results concerning the subleading term and theirimplications for the structure of the 2-loop F^6 term in the SYM effectiveaction.
Symmetry-deforming interactions of chiral p-forms.  No-go theorems on gauge-symmetry-deforming interactions of chiral p-forms arereviewed. We consider the explicit case of p=4, D=10 and show that the onlysymmetry-deforming consistent vertex for a system of one chiral 4-form and two2-forms is the one that occurs in the type II B supergravity Lagrangian.
Supersymmetry and Vacuum Energy in Five-Dimensional Brane Worlds.  We present the explicit form of the four-dimensional effective supergravityaction which describes low-energy physics of the Randall--Sundrum model withmoduli fields in the bulk and charged chiral matter living on the branes. Thelow-energy action is derived from the compactification of a locallysupersymmetric model in five dimension. We describe the mechanism ofsupersymmetry breaking mediation which relies on the non-trivial configurationof the $Z_2$-odd bulk fields. Broken supersymmetry leads to stabilization ofthe interbrane distance.
Two-dimensional gauge theories of the symmetric group S(n) and branched  n-coverings of Riemann surfaces in the large-n limit.  Branched n-coverings of Riemann surfaces are described by a 2d lattice gaugetheory of the symmetric group S(n) defined on a cell discretization of thesurface. We study the theory in the large-n limit, and we find a rich phasediagram with first and second order transition lines. The various phases arecharacterized by different connectivity properties of the covering surface. Wepoint out some interesting connections with the theory of random walks on groupmanifolds and with random graph theory.
Strings in a Space with Tensor Central Charge Coordinates.  New string models in D=4 space-time extended by tensor central chargecoordinates $z_{mn}$ are constructed. We use the $z_{mn}$ coordinates togenerate string tension using a minimally extended string action linear in$dz^{mn}$. It is shown that the presence of $z_{mn}$ lifts the light-likecharacter of the tensionless string worldsheet and the degeneracy of itsinduced metric. We analyse the equations of motion and find a solution of thestring equations in the generalized D=(4+6)-dimensional space $X^{\calM}=(x^{m},z^{mn})$ with $z_{mn}$ describing a spin wave process. Asupersymmetric version of the proposed model is formulated.
Perturbative Quantum (In)equivalence of Dual $\sigma$ Models in $2$  dimensions.  Various examples of target space duality transformations are investigated upto two loop order in perturbation theory. Our results show that when using thetree level (`naive') transformation rules the dual theories are in general {\itinequivalent} at two loops to the original ones, (both for the Abelian and thenon Abelian duality).
Second Quantization of the Wilson Loop.  Treating the QCD Wilson loop as amplitude for the propagation of the firstquantized particle we develop the second quantization of the same propagation.The operator of the particle position $\hat{\cal X}_{\mu}$ (the endpoint of the"open string") is introduced as a limit of the large $N$ Hermitean matrix. Wethen derive the set of equations for the expectation values of the vertexoperators $\VEV{ V(k_1)\dots V(k_n)} $. The remarkable property of theseequations is that they can be expanded at small momenta (less than the QCD massscale), and solved for expansion coefficients. This provides the relations formultiple commutators of position operator, which can be used to construct thisoperator. We employ the noncommutative probability theory and find theexpansion of the operator $\hat{\cal X}_\mu $ in terms of products of creationoperators $ a_\mu^{\dagger}$. In general, there are some free parameters leftin this expansion. In two dimensions we fix parameters uniquely from thesymplectic invariance. The Fock space of our theory is much smaller than thatof perturbative QCD, where the creation and annihilation operators werelabelled by continuous momenta. In our case this is a space generated by $d =4$ creation operators. The corresponding states are given by all sentences madeof the four letter words. We discuss the implication of this construction forthe mass spectra of mesons and glueballs.
Heterotic versus Type I.  I compare the calculations of special $F^4$ and $R^4$ terms in the(toroidally-compactified) heterotic and type-I effective actions. Besideschecking duality, this elucidates the quantitative rules of D-brane calculus. Iexplain in particular (a) why D-branes do not run in loops, and (b) how theirinstanton contributions arise from orbifold fixed points of their moduli space.The instanton sum has a simple representation as a sum of the elliptic generaof matrix models.
Black Hole Condensation and Duality in String Theory.  This is a non-technical version of a talk presented at the conference,"S-Duality and Mirror Symmetry in String Theory" Trieste, June, 1996 which willappear in the proceedings.
Heterotic/Type II Duality in D=4 and String/String Duality.  We discuss the structure of heterotic/type II duality in four dimensions as aconsequence of string-string duality in six dimensions. We emphasize the newfeatures in four dimensions which go beyond the six dimensional vacuumstructure and pertain to the way particular K3 fibers can be embedded inCalabi-Yau threefolds. Our focus is on hypersurfaces as well as completeintersections of codimension two which arise via conifold transitions.
Summary of Results in N=1 Supersymmetric SU(2) Gauge Theories.  We summarize some results in 4d, N=1 supersymmetric SU(2) gauge theories: theexact effective superpotentials, the vacuum structure, and the exact effectiveAbelian couplings for arbitrary bare masses and Yukawa couplings.
Notes on Matrix and Micro Strings.  We review some recent developments in the study of M-theory compactificationsvia Matrix theory. In particular we highlight the appearance of IIA strings andtheir interactions, and explain the unifying role of the M-theory five-branefor describing the spectrum of the T^5 compactification and its dualitysymmetries. The 5+1-dimensional micro-string theory that lives on the fivebraneworld-volume takes a central place in this presentation.
String Theory and Quark Confinement.  This article is based on a talk given at the ``Strings'97'' conference. Itdiscusses the search for the universality class of confining strings. The keyingredients include the loop equations, the zigzag symmetry, the non-linearrenormalization group. Some new tests for the equivalence between gauge fieldsand strings are proposed.
The Symplectic Structure of N=2 Supergravity and its Central Extension.  We report on the formulation of $N=2$ $D=4$ supergravity coupled to $n_V$abelian vector multiplets in presence of electric and magnetic charges. Generalformulae for the (moduli dependent) electric and magnetic charges for the$n_V+1$ gauge fields are given which reflect the symplectic structure of theunderlying special geometry. The specification to Type IIB strings compactifiedon Calabi-Yau manifolds, with gauge group $U(1)^{h_{21}+1}$ is given.
Supersymmetry and Strongly Coupled Gauge Theories.  I briefly review how supersymmetry helps in the extraction of exactnonperturbative information from field theories, and then discuss some openproblems in strongly coupled gauge theories. (Talk given at ``30 Years ofSupersymmetry'' symposium in Minneapolis, Minnesota on October 15, 2000.)
Curved Four-Dimensional Spacetime as Infrared Regulator in Superstring  Theories.  We construct a new class of exact and stable superstring solutions in whichour four-dimensional spacetime is taken to be curved . We derive in this spacethe full one-loop partition function in the presence of non-zero $\langleF^a_{\mu\nu}F_a^{\mu\nu}\rangle=F^2$ gauge background as well as in an $\langleR_{\mu\nu\rho\sigma}R^{\mu\nu\rho\sigma}\rangle=\R^2$ gravitational backgroundand we show that the non-zero curvature, $Q^2=2/(k+2)$, of the spacetimeprovides an infrared regulator for all$\langle[F^a_{\mu\nu}]^n[R_{\mu\nu\rho\sigma}]^m\rangle$ correlation functions.The string one-loop partition function $Z(F,\R, Q)$ can be exactly computed,and it is IR and UV finite. For $Q$ small we have thus obtained an IRregularization, consistent with spacetime supersymmetry (when $F=0,\R=0$) andmodular invariance. Thus, it can be used to determine, without any infraredambiguities, the one-loop string radiative corrections on gravitational, gaugeor Yukawa couplings necessary for the string superunification predictions atlow energies. (To appear in the Proceedings of the Trieste Spring 94 Workshop)
Strings, Matrix Models, and Meanders.  I briefly review the present status of bosonic strings and discretized randomsurfaces in D>1 which seem to be in a polymer rather than stringy phase. As anexplicit example of what happens, I consider the Kazakov-Migdal model with alogarithmic potential which is exactly solvable for any D (at large D for anarbitrary potential). I discuss also the meander problem and report some newresults on its representation via matrix models and the relation to theKazakov-Migdal model. A supersymmetric matrix model is especially useful fordescribing the principal meanders.
M Theory Fivebrane and SQCD.  Talk presented at Strings `97 in Amsterdam (June 16 - 21, 1997)
Gromov-Witten Invariants via Algebraic Geometry.  Calculations of the number of curves on a Calabi-Yau manifold via aninstanton expansion do not always agree with what one would expect naively. Itis explained how to account for continuous families of instantons viadeformation theory and excess intersection theory. The essential role played bydegenerate instantons is also explained. This paper is a slightly expandedversion of the author's talk at the June 1995 Trieste Conference on S-Dualityand Mirror Symmetry.
Branes probing black holes.  We consider a brane moving close to a large number of coincident branes. Wecompare the calculation of the effective action using the gauge theory livingon the brane and the calculation using the supergravity approximation. Wediscuss some general features about the correspondence between large N gaugetheories and black holes. Then we do a one loop calculation which applies forextremal and near extremal black holes. We comment on the expected results forhigher loop calculations. We make some comments on the Matrix theoryinterpretation of these results.
An Introduction to T-Duality in String Theory.  In these lectures a general introduction to T-duality is given. In theabelian case the approaches of Buscher, and Ro\u{c}ek and Verlinde arereviewed. Buscher's prescription for the dilaton transformation is recoveredfrom a careful definition of the gauge integration measure. It is also shownhow duality can be understood as a quite simple canonical transformation. Someaspects of non-abelian duality are also discussed, in particular what is knownon relation to canonical transformations. Some implications of the existence ofduality on the cosmological constant and the definition of distance in StringTheory are also suggested.
Testing M(atrix)-Theory at Two Loops.  I discuss the relation between M-theory and M(atrix)-theory in flat space byconsidering the effective potential for the scattering of two groups ofD0-branes in both theories. An explicit calculation of this potential up to twoloop order in M(atrix)-theory reveals a fascinating agreement. Lecture given atStrings '97; June 17, 1997.
Closing the Generation Gap.  I describe recent examples of phase transitions in four-dimensional M theoryvacua in which the net generation number changes. There are naive obstructionsto transitions lifting chiral matter, but loopholes exist which enable us toavoid them. I first review how chirality arises in the heterotic limit of Mtheory, previously known forms of topology change in string theory, andchirality-changing phase transitions in six dimensions. This leads to theconstruction of the four-dimensional examples, which involve wrapped M-theoryfivebranes at an $E_8$ wall.
Non-Abelian T-duality for open strings.  In the first part of the talk we discuss T-duality for a free boson on aworld sheet with boundary in a setting suitable for the generalization tonon-trivial backgrounds. The gauging method as well as the canonicaltransformation are considered. In both cases Dirichlet strings as T-duals ofNeumann strings arise in a generic way. In the second part the gauging methodis employed to construct the T-dual of a model with non-Abelian isometries.
Open and Closed Supermembranes with Winding.  Motivated by manifest Lorentz symmetry and a well-defined large-N limitprescription, we study the supersymmetric quantum mechanics proposed as a modelfor the collective dynamics of D0-branes from the point of view of the11-dimensional supermembrane. We argue that the continuity of the spectrumpersists irrespective of the presence of winding around compact target-spacedirections and discuss the central charges in the superalgebra arising fromwinding membrane configurations. Along the way we comment on the structure ofopen supermembranes.
String Model Building in the Age of D-Branes.  The string duality revolution calls into question virtually all of theworking assumptions of string model builders. A number of difficult questionsarise. I use fractional charge as an example of a criterion which one wouldhope is robust beyond the weak coupling heterotic limit. Talk given at the 5thInternational Workshop on Supersymmetry and Unification of FundamentalInteractions (SUSY-96), University of Maryland, College Park, May 29 - June 1,1996.
The State of Matrix Theory.  This is a brief description of what has been accomplished and what remains tobe done in the construction of a nonperturbative formulation of "The TheoryFormerly Known as String". It is culled from two short talks given by theauthor at SUSY 97 and Strings 97.
Mirror Symmetry and the Type II String.  If $X$ and $Y$ are a mirror pair of Calabi--Yau threefolds, mirror symmetryshould extend to an isomorphism between the type IIA string theory compactifiedon $X$ and the type IIB string theory compactified on $Y$, with allnonperturbative effects included. We study the implications which this proposalhas for the structure of the semiclassical moduli spaces of the compactifiedtype II theories. For the type IIB theory, the form taken by discrete shifts inthe Ramond-Ramond scalars exhibits an unexpected dependence on the $B$-field.(Based on a talk at the Trieste Workshop on S-Duality and Mirror Symmetry.)
Black Hole Condensation and the Web of Calabi-Yau Manifolds.  We review recent work concerning topology changing phase transitions throughblack hole condensation in Type II string theory. We then also briefly describea present study aimed at extending the known web of interconnections betweenCalabi-Yau manifolds. We show, for instance, that all 7555 Calabi-Yauhypersurfaces in weighted projective four space are mathematically connected byextremal transitions.
Consistency between 11D and U-duality.  U duality transformations must act on a basis of states that form completemultiplets of the U group, at any coupling, even though the states may not bemass degenerate, as for a broken symmetry. Similarly, if superstring theory isrelated to a non-perturbative 11D M-theory, then an 11D supermultipletstructure is expected, even though the multiplet may contain states ofdifferent masses. We analyse the consistency between these two multipletschemes at the higher excited string levels for various compactifications ofthe type IIA superstring. While we find complete consistency for a number ofcompactifications, there remain some unanswered questions in others. Therelation to D-branes also needs further clarification.
On Perturbative Gravity and Gauge Theory.  We review some applications of tree-level (classical) relations betweengravity and gauge theory that follow from string theory. Together with$D$-dimensional unitarity, these relations can be used to perturbativelyquantize gravity theories, i.e. they contain the necessary information forobtaining loop contributions. We also review recent applications of these ideasshowing that N=1 D=11 supergravity diverges, and review arguments that N=8 D=4supergravity is less divergent than previously thought, though it does appearto diverge at five loops. Finally, we describe field variables for theEinstein-Hilbert Lagrangian that help clarify the perturbative relationshipbetween gravity and gauge theory.
Creation of Strings in D-particle Quantum Mechanics.  D-particle quantum mechanics in a type I' background is reviewed. It is alsodiscussed how a string is created when a D-particle is taken through aD8-brane. The process is found to be dual to the creation of a D3-brane when aNS5 and D5 brane are passed through each other.
Holography of charges in gauge theories.  In this short review we compare the rigid Noether charges to topologicalgauge charges. One important extension is that one should consider eachboundary component of spacetime independently. The argument that relates bulkcharges to surface terms can be adapted to the perfect fluid situation whereone can recognise the helicity and enstrophies as Noether charges. Moregenerally a forcing procedure that increases for instance any Noether charge isdemonstrated. In the gauge theory situation, the key idea can be summarized byone sentence: ``go to infinity and stay there''. A new variational formulationof Einstein's gravity is given that allows for local GL(D,R) invariance. The apriori indeterminacy of the Noether charges is emphasized and a covariantansatz due to S. Silva for the surface charges of gauge theories is analysed,it replaces the (non-covariant) Regge-Teitelboim procedure.
(Non-)perturbative tests of the AdS/CFT correspondence.  I summarize perturbative and non-perturbative field theory tests of theholographic correspondence between type IIB superstring on AdS_5xS^5 and N=4SYM theory. The holographic duality between D-instantons and YM instantons isbriefly described. Non renormalization of two- and three-point functions ofCPO's and their extremal and next-to-extremal correlators are then reviewed.Finally, partial non-renormalization of four-point functions of lowest CPO's isanalyzed in view of the interpretation of short distance logarithmic behavioursin terms of anomalous dimensions of unprotected operators.
Exact Results for Integrable Asymptotically-free Field Theories.  An account is given of a technique for testing the equivalence between anexact factorizable S-matrix and an asymptotically-free Lagrangian field theoryin two space-time dimensions. The method provides a way of resolving CDDambiguities in the S-matrix and it also allows for an exact determination ofthe physical mass in terms of the Lambda parameter of perturbation theory. Theresults for various specific examples are summarized. (To appear in theProceedings of the Conference on Recent Developments in Quantum Field Theoryand Statistical Mechanics, ICTP, Trieste, Easter 1995).
An Exact Solution of BPS Junctions and Its Properties.  We have obtained an exact solution for the BPS domain wall junction for a N=1supersymmetric theory in four dimensions and studied its properties. The modelis a simplified version of the N=2 SU(2) gauge theory with N_f=1 broken to N=1by the mass of the adjoint chiral superfield. We define mode equations anddemonstrate explicitly that fermion and boson with the same mass have to comein pairs except massless modes. We work out explicitly massless Nambu-Goldstone(NG) modes on the BPS domain wall junction. We find that their wave functionsextend along the wall to infinity (not localized) and are not normalizable. Itis argued that this feature is a generic phenomenon of NG modes on domain walljunctions in the bulk flat space in any dimensions. NG fermions exhibit achiral structure in accordance with unitary representations of (1, 0)supersymmetry algebra where fermion and boson with the same mass come in pairsexcept massless modes which can appear singly.
The Master Field for the Half-Planar Approximation for Large $N$ Matrix  Models and Boltzmann Field Theory.  In this talk results of study in various dimensions of the Boltzmann masterfield for a subclass of planar diagrams, so called half-planar diagrams, foundin the recent work by Accardi, Volovich and one of us (I.A.) are presented.
Superstring Dualities.  This talk is divided into two parts. The first part reviews some of theduality relationships between superstring theories. These relationships areinterpreted as providing evidence for the existence of a unique underlyingfundamental theory. The second part describes my recent work on the SL(2,Z)duality group of the type IIB superstring theory in ten dimensions and itsinterpretation in terms of a possible theory of supermembranes in elevendimensions.
Spin Dependence of D0-brane Interactions.  The long-range, spin-dependent forces between D0-branes are related tolong-range fundamental string interactions using duality. These interactionscan then be computed by taking the long distance non-relativistic expansion ofstring four-point amplitudes. The results are in accord with the generalconstraints of Matrix Theory.
Black Holes and D-branes.  D-branes have been used to describe many properties of extremal and nearextremal black holes. These lecture notes provide a short review of thesedevelopments.
Towards Mirror Symmetry as Duality for Two-Dimensional Abelian Gauge  Theories.  Superconformal sigma models with Calabi--Yau target spaces described ascomplete intersection subvarieties in toric varieties can be obtained as thelow-energy limit of certain abelian gauge theories in two dimensions. Weformulate mirror symmetry for this class of Calabi--Yau spaces as a duality inthe abelian gauge theory, giving the explicit mapping relating the twoLagrangians. The duality relates inequivalent theories which lead to isomorphictheories in the low-energy limit. This formulation suggests that mirrorsymmetry could be derived using abelian duality. The application of duality inthis context is complicated by the presence of nontrivial dynamics and theabsence of a global symmetry. We propose a way to overcome these obstacles,leading to a more symmetric Lagrangian. The argument, however, fails to producea derivation of the conjecture.
Duality Symmetries and the Type II String Effective Action.  We discuss the duality symmetries of Type II string effective actions innine, ten and eleven dimensions. As a by-product we give a covariant actionunderlying the ten--dimensional Type IIB supergravity theory. We apply dualitysymmetries to construct dyonic Type II string solutions in six dimensions andtheir reformulation as solutions of the ten--dimensional Type IIB theory in tendimensions.
Unification of String Dualities.  We argue that all conjectured dualities involving various string, M- and F-theory compactifications can be `derived' from the conjectured duality betweentype I and SO(32) heterotic string theory, T-dualities, and the definition ofM- and F- theories. (Based on a talk given at the conference on `AdvancedQuantum Field Theory', Le Londe-les-Maures, France, Aug.31-Sept.5, 1996, inmemory of Claude Itzykson)
Some Relationships Between Dualities in String Theory.  Some relationships between string theories and eleven-dimensionalsupergravity are discussed and reviewed. We see how some relationships can bederived from others. The cases of N=2 supersymmetry in nine dimensions and N=4supersymmetry in four dimensions are discussed in some detail. The latter caseleads to consideration of quotients of a K3 surface times a torus and to apossible peculiar relationship between eleven-dimensional supergravity and theheterotic strings in ten dimensions. Lecture given at "S-Duality and MirrorSymmetry", Trieste, June 1995.
Duality Symmetries in N=2 Heterotic Superstring.  We review the derivation and the basic properties of the perturbativeprepotential in N=2 compactifications of the heterotic superstring. We discussthe structure of the perturbative monodromy group and the embedding of rigidlysupersymmetric monodromies associated with enhanced gauge groups, at bothperturbative and non-perturbative level.
BPS States in Superstrings with Spontaneously Broken SUSY.  We show the existence of a supersymmetry-breaking mechanism in string theory,where N=4 supersymmetry is broken spontaneously to N=2 and N=1 withmoduli-dependent gravitino masses. The BPS spectrum of the theory with lowersupersymmetry is in one-to-one correspondence with the spectrum of theheterotic N=4 string. The mass splitting of the N=4 spectrum depends on themoduli as well as the three R-symmetry charges. In the case of N=4 \to N=2, theperturbative N=2 prepotential is determined by the perturbative N=4 BPS states.This observation led us to suggest a method that determines the exactnon-perturbative prepotential of the effective N=2 supergravity using theshifted spectrum of the non-perturbative BPS states of the underlying N=4theory.
Lectures on Heterotic-Type I Duality.  We present a review of heterotic-type I string duality. In particular, wediscuss the effective field theory of six- and four-dimensionalcompactifications with N>1 supersymmetries. We then describe various dualitytests by comparing gauge couplings, N=2 prepotentials, as well ashigher-derivative F-terms. Based on invited lectures delivered at: 33rd KarpaczWinter School of Theoretical Physics ``Duality, Strings and Fields,''Przesieka, Poland, 13 - 22 February 1997; Trieste Conference on DualitySymmetries in String Theory, Trieste, Italy, 1 - 4 April 1997; Cargese SummerSchool ``Strings, Branes and Dualities,'' Cargese, France, 26 May - 14 June1997.
Three-Family Grand Unification in String Theory.  We briefly discuss the status of three-family grand unified string models.
On M-9-branes and their dimensional reductions.  The M-9-brane Wess-Zumino action is constructed, and by using it, consistencyof the relation of p-branes for $p \ge 8$, suggested on the basis ofsuperalgebra, is discussed.
Poisson-Lie T-Duality and Supersymmetry.  We review aspects of Poisson-Lie T-duality which we explicitly formulate asa canonical transformation on the world-sheet. Extensions of previous work onT-duality in relation to supersymmetry are also discussed. (Contribution tothe proceedings of the 30th International Symposium Ahrenshoop on the Theory ofElementary Particles, Buckow, Germany, 26-31 August 1996)
Electric-Magnetic Duality in Supergravity.  I review electric-magnetic duality from the perspective of extendedsupergravity theories in four spacetime dimensions
Feynman diagrams and polylogarithms: shuffles and pentagons.  We summarize the Hopf algebra structure on Feynman diagrams and emphasize theinterest in further algebraic structures hidden in Feynman graphs.
Exact Electromagnetic Duality.  This talk, given at several conferences and meetings, explains the backgroundleading to the formulation of the exact electromagnetic duality conjecturebelieved to be valid in N=4 supersymmetric SU(2) gauge theory.
Duality in String Theory.  In this lecture we review some of the recent developments in string theory onan introductory and qualitative level. In particular we focus on S-T-Udualities of toroidally compactified ten-dimensional string theories andoutline the connection to M-theory. Dualities among string vacua with lesssupersymmetries in six and four space-time dimensions is discussed and theconcept of F-theory is briefly presented. (Lecture given by J. Louis at theWorkshop on Gauge Theories, Applied Supersymmetry and Quantum Gravity, ImperialCollege, London, UK, July 5--10, 1996.)
Discontinuous BPS Spectra in N=2 Susy QCD.  These notes are based on work done in collaboration with Frank Ferrari. Weshow how to determine the spectra of stable BPS states in $N=2$ supersymmetric$SU(2)$ Yang-Mills theories that are asymptotically free, i.e. without and with$N_f=1,2,3$ quark hypermultiplets. In all cases: $\bullet$ There is a curve ofmarginal stability diffeomorphic to a circle and going through all (finite)singular points of moduli space. $\bullet$ The BPS spectra are discontinuousacross these curves. $\bullet$ The strong-coupling spectra (inside the curves)contain only those BPS states that can become massless and are responsible forthe singularities. Except for $N_f=3$, they form a multiplet (with differentmasses) of the broken global discrete symmetry. $\bullet$ All othersemi-classical BPS states must and do decay consistently when crossing thecurves. $\bullet$ The weak-coupling, i.e. semi-classical BPS spectra, containno magnetic charges larger than one for $N_f=0,1,2$ and no magnetic chargeslarger than two for $N_f=3$.
Finite Quantum Physics and Noncommutative Geometry.  Conventional discrete approximations of a manifold do not preserve itsnontrivial topological features. In this article we describe an approximationscheme due to Sorkin which reproduces physically important aspects of manifoldtopology with striking fidelity. The approximating topological spaces in thisscheme are partially ordered sets (posets). Now, in ordinary quantum physics ona manifold $M$, continuous probability densities generate the commutativeC*-algebra $\cc(M)$ of continuous functions on $M$. It has a fundamentalphysical significance, containing the information to reconstruct the topologyof $M$, and serving to specify the domains of observables like the Hamiltonian.For a poset, the role of this algebra is assumed by a noncommutative C*-algebra$\ca $. As noncommutative geometries are based on noncommutative C*-algebras,we therefore have a remarkable connection between finite approximations toquantum physics and noncommutative geometries. Various methods for doingquantum physics using $\ca $ are explored. Particular attention is paid todeveloping numerically viable approximation schemes which at the same timepreserve important topological features of continuum physics.
Brane Surgery.  Some aspects of the role of p-branes in non-perturbative superstring theoryand M-theory are reviewed. It is then shown how the Chern-Simons terms in D=10and D=11 supergravity theories determine which branes can end on which, i.e.the `brane boundary rules'.
Open-string models with broken supersymmetry.  I review the salient features of three classes of open-string models withbroken supersymmetry. These suffice to exhibit, in relatively simple settings,the two phenomena of ``brane supersymmetry'' and ``brane supersymmetrybreaking''. In the first class of models, to lowest order supersymmetry isbroken both in the closed and in the open sectors. In the second class ofmodels, to lowest order supersymmetry is broken in the closed sector, but is{\it exact} in the open sector, at least for the low-lying modes, and often forentire towers of string excitations. Finally, in the third class of models, tolowest order supersymmetry is {\it exact} in the closed (bulk) sector, but isbroken in the open sector. Brane supersymmetry breaking provides a naturalsolution to some old difficulties met in the construction of open-string vacua.
Poisson-Lie T-duality.  A description of dual non-Abelian duality is given, based on the notion ofthe Drinfeld double. The presentation basically follows the original paperis put on the algebraic rather than the geometric aspect of the constructionand a concrete example of the Borelian double is worked out in detail.